20170424 monday sobekcm code camp
for overview slides - see: http://sobekrepository.org/events/codecamp/fl2017/schedule
t0820 start

Had less coding before.. and now pure code camp...

Mark provided a new item viewer jpeg plugin that we now use at uf..
and now we have a plugin.

TOPIC: Richard Bernardy sobekcm plugins experience and issues
and richard bernardy has been using plugins since December 2016

rb is exploiting the html viewer.. and all the text fields..
in some records that broke articles to pdfs,
I just used the downloads viewer, and I used the html viewer for other
and if we could add order values to download viewer it would be good

mvs - you just added the viewer
rb - no that was my last viewer.. it seems to be the last pdf in the struct map

mvs it should have an order, we can do that
and make another demo viewer that acknowledges the order

mvs so the html tags others have requested and we have another ticket from
london to put in a carriage return tab..
and so we need a solution to talk about more maybe here

rb and here another

rb but another thing we can think of is using the wiki context stuff, like
** becomes double-bulleted..
or we could choose html slashes vs wiki style editing..
and github does it.. and wikipedia does it..
it seems slightly more accessible for other metadata, md, entry users

rb the other big thing is limited nature of the resource type dropdown
mvs it is only r list for upcoming

rb overall I need to do more work.. well I do local customizations in js,
and other big one.. is .. updating iface from validation for html5 validation

and mvs we want to be html5 valid, but if we are not,
please change the core code and fix and resubmit

rb - I had a demo that was mobile iface, started, and director of mktg killed that
and responsive design regular html i have not gotten to yet

mvs is html 5 invalid

rb I used, I am switching to chrome but use firefox now and I use validation
all the time
and there are tons of warnings and error with respect to (wrt) responsiveness tags
mvs - the responsive thing is another topic we want to address.

mvs my feeling is this site is image driven, and there are many options you can do..

It is not like take my corp website and make it responsive
and have been working on making the web also a mobile site..
maybe with new webskins and simpler features..
and if you want to do it.. and you can do it as a plugin..

and when at menu.. item or collection level you can create, cr, a new viewer
and offer as a new plugin,..

rb i will have to, and ai work with another entity and launch deadline is
first day of fall classes, and i need more guidance, and i realized it could
be done in new top level directory so we can preserve our digital url
and

TOPIC: no plugin changes for admin, language support
mvs - and admin pages i have no intention of changing...
mvs and wrt better support for other langs, i do not intend to offer for
admin pages.. too many

rb has a couple of examples to discuss..

TOPIC: mvs - and good examples of using item viewer plugins

and item viewer you should/can make look like dml? or etc.
and we will talk about item layout more
and the new strucutre will use the item layout model for collections,
and you can also use that for collections, for config, viewers or layout template,
and the new version out there i believe has the layout as well.
-
TOPIC: UF Patrick projects
patrick projects - nothing special except looking at some errors and stuff
that they think it should be and we are doing retooling of backend pieces
that does bulk stuff.

and mvs wants to sit down with us, as the new stuff, and talk..
patrick and the lem server,

TOPIC: UF DJL stuff
and jacskon is rewriting some ndnp stuff..
jackson- there was an issue, 4.10 had to include new libraries and the
connection string handling in ndnp and open
and save of mets also changed in 4.10 so all had to be updated.
ands when new bibs a new call has to be made.. j

TOPIC: LEM server and DLC issues, scanner 'copi' aka copy book
mvs and you can define workflows of image cleanup with lem server,..
and it is easy to apply too much cleanup and load to an ftp server.
mvs - and can meet with mark along with chelsea, and fiu also uses it...
ie the lem stuff mvs saw the guy who is doing images work
and there is a gigantic list --

rb we got a new copy book to replace our boren one and they wanted to sell
us a lot fo software

mvs -and with lem stuff you wontt need to use the dlc toolbox, and it uses,
changes the windows app the qc tool they have been using forever...

and patrick re lem server and dlc
ps jane penn, she does use both the web version and desktop version
it would be good to know why she is not using the web completely
all the dlc toolbox did was build image derivs which builder now does
and lem will do, and does some qc and ftps it up to the server,
but now can only defrag and drop to the folder..
and we can drop support with the toolbox.

TOPIC: UF DJL dj looney stuff, tivoli, archiving glacier google cloud
djl has been working on nonsobek related and our tivoli has been acting up
mvs do you pay for tivoli

djl we do pay for it and is more expensive than google cloud
mvs - we charge by size of repos to our customers, but we do not keep their
master tiffs, and we consider a sobek integrated archival system ..
that looks at glacier, microsoft,
rb is begging for glacier, most flexible and cheaper,
and ok to wait 6 hours then it is fine
mvs will share what he is looing at
and
jl they do not like to wait more than 30 seconds..
jl - google cloud has retrievals..
-
t0841
- mvs for us we want to spread it across multiple vendor..
i have not priced google cloud in a while.. but bit.

TOPIC: Paul Sullivan stuff
and paul sullivan
is with sobek digital and operations.. and the archving thing they look at,
and between starting to look work with per metrics and sobek cm in the cloud
and paul sullivan is on amazon.. psul..

TOPIC: MVS stuff - sobek and dloc history too
mvs and a good oppty ..
mvs has been developing uf for 10 or 12 years, orig for dloc project
and another we started sobek, for historical societies to submit materials...
then we open sourced in 6 years ago and I left UF to be able to market the
software.. and we have been around for about 3 years.. and supporting storage
ud using oreo libray is using sobek and wanted mvs to host it
and we have been writing as open source, and trying to drive to 5.0
and mvs is seeing light at end of tunnel

TOPIC: future sobekcm 5.0 details
and 5.0 is big next step
and some plugins will be open sourced and some subscription based
and we will have an app store to register plugins.

TOPIC: future SOLR changes for sobekcm 5.0

mvs the last switch ... per the roadmap, we have to re-index every item in repo,
so we do that in version 5.0
we have had problems with our solr service  host stopping responding...
so why not support old solr and new solr simultaneosusly..
we can run solr 3.6 and 6.0 is now out so in 6.0 can connect to it and it will
connect as a sql compliant db, and can do some nice selects, so less of a
black box
mvs continuing..
can look at all data indexed on it, and we may switch to it and have option
to go the newer solr soon, but not nec md searching at first,
and probably 4 months out, as with 5.0..

TOPIC: rb full text search needs at USF

rb so they wanted full text search as default, and not all items have full text..
and that has proved popular..
and so one professor i mentioned i cannot convince.. the name of the collection
is crom, and one item has 'crom' in the full text that is not related to
his collection, and he thingks something i wrong, but no, but a challenge to explain to professors

rb and I returned to the prof a forensic analysis of search results
and stil not satisfied..
--
TOPIC: full text indexing also newspapers nndp
mvs I was thinking about newspapers and helpful to look for "gainesville sun"
together
mvs and I want to be able to collapse newspapers into titles..
mvs and search for gainesville sun...
can get you into tons and tons of issues... maybe a problem?

and we use full text indexing on the sql is how we do full text indexing,
and problems A is: we have to choose language for the dict
and problem B: identifiers with periods are split and it causes failures,
so we need special code for identifier search
--
TOPIC: CODE CAMP SCHEDULE
and now we look at our schedule... and we will talk for a short bit
and give a chance to work on it.
and helpful to show some of  the work we have done to show what we have done,
or the group.
and mvs has proposed some things...with the schedule.

t0903 -

TOPIC: SobekCM content types like RTI and FDA xml files downloadable
mvs - the litltem (titleitem?) fda xml files are now downloadable - an issue
to fix.

so maybe we should be able to add a sobek... xml file of different type.
--
rb new types of content like rti is jpegs and xml files and the 3d models
and texture files are..
mvs - if one wanted to use viewer to make a thousand jpeg slices.
--
mvs we switch the schedule a bit
today we will cover add new engine endpoint
and we add in bulk uploading.. and we can propose anything else..
-
TOPIC: engine endpoint example nested EAD new db structures
endpoint is like a rest api<kw>

so think of something you want to handle
could include an entirely new structure to sobekcm database like
a new ead viewer with a whole other structure, showing how containers link,
and you want to pull that structure out for another external system
and think of a report you might want to use

TOPIC: engine endpoint application examples
so if you write a reporting thing it is simple to tie into html or serve
item info a different way..

and we will add a new endpoint to add a results viewer in a different format
so lets think about that..

the endpoint topic is at 2:15 today that is..

TOPIC: git basics

example repo: https://github.com/SobekDigital/HolaCampistas
so github.. is .. all topics today are same for github or gitlab
or such, not svn though.

mvs likes to use git app separately..
and he usually closes visual studio and launches externally
installing git extensions, if you want it:
download installer: https://gitextensions.github.io
-
TOPIC: autocompile
-mvs we do not have anything watching the code now,
i am looking into an auto compile when a code is committed..

TOPIC: continuous integrated testing
so i want to reject commits that do not compile using jenkins or hudson..
but team foundation is expensive so when I get the code working for jenkins
or hudson... or it is travis, that has 'freemium'  minor editions..

djl - travis is nice too
- djl they also - can pay $70/month for their code..

today we do hands on to pull down repo and make changes,

<time>t1040<time>
TOPIC: process, pull requests
fedora is one of largest open source projects,
but for now only 5 of us here, and he may delegate authority to approve
pull requests to one of us...

TOPIC: plugins
rb: once plugins came out, it is safer now.. for us to work with
and so now the pace of the sobek changes have slowed down in last month or so

mvs: and in general velocity of changes will slow because we make more things
configuration and plugin driven..

and for example changing base functionality will be rarely neeed

So please do merge and submit any code you do..

TOPIC: endpoint results viewer
mvs - So we will talk about results viewer here .. but if we did
make changes and wanted to add some functionality..

and mvs says for rb one example results viewer is timeline..
and we talked about harvesting.. ..

-- and mvs says there are some things like generic harvesting sources..
are good candidates to add to base code.

and we will still have some cases to push code (after plugins are widespread).
and it helps perceived life of the project if more committers..
and over time if we get more contributors we will add pull requests

and mvs knows of 2 companies adding to code,
1) one is the university of london
2) and another group with more localization strings to support,
about 14 asiatic languages, and that would be only a configuration file...
- --
submit often and submit a lot is mvs invitation

TOPIC: config files use of directives
rb: says he needs to learn the cpt variable name, the inserts or the 'directives'

mvs yes we call them directives, special syntax within config files or
other places, where we insert version number or id

mvs I have considered a way to make that extensible to create your own
small chunk of code...

So we are talking now, on the schedule:
The next topic is on the road to version 5
slated for time range from t1045 to t1130

We will talk thru the changes..
and we will talk about plugins later from 1130-1230

TOPIC: sobekcm version 5.0 philosophy
version 5 idea is more api driven architecture, less monolithic code
and we are 2 years into this change

and it was well organized into enumerations nicely mentally
divided it was,  but harder to pull into many libraries

Now we are pushing enumerations into configurations files for easier changes
and another major part is to expose data through the config files
so we can understand what code is doing, how configured...

TOPIC: walkthrough settings system settings system wide
mvs continues
now looking at settings/system-wide settings
and we have a new collection wizard

but system-wide settings is newly organized..
and it is most 90% now in config files and 10% in database, and

the item viewers are (assigned) in the db per item..
see table sobekcm_item_viewers
so need some db data on viewers.

and diff info on md? is in config files
and new way to create own item viewers is here now too

and go to sobekrepository.org and left margin go to
technical help/development/future...

that section of page links is now lately maintained.. see text there..
now it shows version 4.11  list, today.

TOPIC: Future work on verion 5.0
So biggest change, there now is finishing the item viewer architecture
changes.. where you create your own layout and viewer plug into
the layout.. and this will come out quite soon, much already on
github daily version

and item mgmt changes item will be in next version,  but this
version has all architecture changes, version 4.11 that is..
and we add more system wide editable settings.. adding usage
email eg to system wide settings

and this is first one ..
TOPIC: config files or templates and email addresses

jl - was an issue with the template themselves not including the
email address on them,
jl so we should look at our templates
mvs yes - and I will look at that with you...
yes, another major change.. is now.. under config/user,
and also under many places we have added user folders and default folders.

So now see mySobek/templates/default that folder is there..
and the default templates had removed the email addresses

TOPIC: config file containing directory order priority ranking

So if make a dlocxml and .. so it will look in default first and
then look in mySobek/templates/user

so the same now with config files, and we should not update the default ..

I can make a user folder that will be honored to hold the
configuration of item viewers.

-- and we also .. now the

TOPIC: future builder changes
mvs: re the usage email info
and two more are not now schedulable,
but if builder just starts there are a few that are done..
but we will add scheduling..
and in future builder will run as a service and get fired up
but in future it will be a service
So now it turns itself off at 11pm and back on at 4am...
but it will soon be a true windows service, so there will not a
startup... really, so it will handle schedulable tasks..
so it will become scheduled tasks, in the db, and we work on
finishing web gui to set them ..

TOPIC: future version 4.12  changes in templates editing md and behaviors templates

now looking at version 4.12.
and we are doing more item mgmt stuff,
and the time beh screen will change and the templates
and now you just assign little elements, elts, in the template files, for
also editing md and editing behaviors
and it will change..

TOPIC: 4.12 item viewer changes
and can say create a whole item template page
and the thumbnail will be its own whole item page
and we added a lot of possibility for item viewers

For individual items you can change order of the viewers, eg for
aerials.. to show the map instead of the first jpeg..

So for individual item you may want the google map to be the
first view or you may want it to say tiles instead of map.. and so now you
can label your viewers, and it will become available via the user iface..

TOPIC: aggregations
mvs does not like to tie anything to aggregations, but items can
be in multiple aggregations and it becomes a free-for-all..


TOPIC: Future 5.0 concept of projects

mvs - and also in v5.0 is idea of projects - and you would tie
diff info to the project like viewers
or you can say an item goes into a project to inherit default
behaviors (as we can already inherit default md)..
--

and usu, usually,  we will add new functionality with plugins
and it gives us more power ourselves,
and basic architectural changes will slow down
and the goal is to not make changes to base code as often

t1102
mvs maybe some v4.12 features will come out sooner, ie
the system wide settings

TOPIC: version 4.12 bulk spreadsheet and marc importer
and v 4.12 item 3 - add bulk spreadsheet and marc importer to the
web interface -- mark is going to support soon..
and may make a way to save their mappings, and it will be sent
to builder to do the importing..

mvs So that is a gigantic piece -

TOPICL sobek purchased a new company
we purchased a new company last year with 8 or 9 new customers who
need these bulk spreadsheet features..
--
and we will look at item viewer and widgets

TOPIC: version 4.12 changes for collections management viewers:

and version 4.13 is just the collections stuff..
meaning you can do what you want with collection home page,
and each collection may have multiple collection viewers..

rb: one staffer just updates the text
but we want to prevent staffer from updating other stuff...
for safety... to have more granular editing rights..

mvs yes we should think of that
mvs also is idea of viewing rights on diff collection viewers..

mvs maybe the same way item (editing) permissions, also the viewers will work...
will be similar to item viewer

TOPIC: verison 5.0 searches all on Solr and builder as windows service.
and version 5.0 will move all searching into new Solr indexes and
make builder run as windows service.

TOPIC: After 5.0 - future other alternative databases
rb: other db support? (rb/USF uses MySQL)

mvs: we added construct to ask what is the db type and then
a gateway to get to it and a layer that gets to that, but no
coding yet to get to the db..
and postgres is a priority after 5.0..

TOPIC: USF RB looking for postgres, GIS support
We were looking for postgres but rb is working on msyql
rb: a colleague must look for failover and disaster recovery..
rb: our gis people are able to go to the cloud for backup, so why not us

mvs - you could, most expensive will be web-accessible files...

mvs you can run ms sql on amazon cloud and azure cloud and .net
runs on amazon and azure too--

mvs biggest thing is just keeping it updated...

TOPIC: multiple builder threads performance throughput speedups

djl question: we are hitting the limit of how fast builder can
run on a single thread.. and we have 2 ways to approach.
and we look at .. logging issue

mvs - logging would not be too bad.. it puts in first log and it
gets back logid .. and all addl logs reference that logid..
and if you sort by logid it can be sorted..

and mvs has often said to run another builder...

but we have no
way to represent single vs multiple builder in the db..

--
t1115

TOPIC: ideas on builder updates speedups

all: builder may need some updates

mvs I was thinking ..for solr and could also work for builder,
create an engine endpoint to give the health of solr (and maybe
another endpoint also for the builder)
and status cake would email us for a 404 on one url..
so the endpoint url would return 404, the status monitor url
for a specific service.. a shortcut status notice.
-mvs uses statuscake to check urls

TOPIC: new wolfsonion builder module

- we have a new wolfsonion builder module..
they create a mets file and use their accession number
mvs: and we worked on another builder module that extracts
from the pdf and creates the mets,
and creates the bibid with an id that it reserves
and the builder module is really powerful

TOPIC: mvs has been doing folder level builder modules he has been writing..

- mvs has a good feeling that when we load it out...
we will end up saying or they will that they want other md loaded as well..
- that is our current list of pending projects..

TOPIC:  rb: you have google map editor listed..?
and it is under additional planned changes - originally written by laurie..
--
mvs - st augustine grant was supposed to add user interface for adding
coordinates and that became funky
and I will try to add again..

TOPIC: Sobekcm image server

and bullet 4 - sobekcm image server -- to draw a circle around say a
stadium on a tile., and we will eventually use also to highlight
the text version as well.

adding lat long was most complex, and then adding rectangles,
and each aerial has many tiles or pages and each is a geo book or
tile/rectangle, one assigned per page.

and we can add other stuff later.

TOPIC: the EAD support,  big part, was first getting engine working
as much of what we serve is static html,
and what is generated by the app is what is seen,

but the idea of ead is compressed container lists and they can
drill down, and with ajax node expansion it will say just give me
newest what is in this container..

we will work on this , and we will charge non-hosting custs,
and john nemmers helped a lot, so uf will get it free.
-
TOPIC: and other ones we will get is better support for authority control..
we are looking and also mvs and I should just say digital commons
TOPIC: what is pushed over 2 year is a map of america or world that
shows where your hits are coming from -
digital commons loves that per rb
rb we plan ahead for the md thing by expanding author field and
putting the id number..

mvs some things we will baby step toward -

TOPIC: at first we will just support open id, just a small amount

TOPIC: and re prepping for new sobekcm versions -
it will take a while to reindex your items again..


TOPIC: Future SOLR tools to index only new files for an item_monthly_usage
mvs: we will give a small thing that only does a solr, it is a point of
no return, it runs through all your text and runs solr

so next time you have an item with 500 text files, the next time you need
not resubmit all 500 items for solr indexing.

and mvs will give us tools that do just that..
it is big bec it has a point of no return
(Q: ask about this concept)

TOPIC: and putting stats on the map will blow up our db
because, bec, each stat will need a per-country breakout number then.
bec now we have small info in the db, we have a single line
saying this item was hit with some view options per month, and
that will explode by N of countries that hit it.. it will be
interesting, but maybe too costly to keep
and digital commons keeps all hits from non spyders.. a lot..

t1126
TOPIC:and mvs wants to see how rb will prepare for the new version
rb our catalogger works with a traditional catalogger who has done

a poster project with european data model and will next do a full
conference session on it

TOPIC: future support authorities metadata keywords
mvs - so the way we will handle them is just another table in the
db  for all your authorities

mvs I tend to think of people and places but also authorities exist
for subject keywords

so we have folder for each resource,
and each authority will have a folder,

and at bottom is an EAC?, like an EAD, (authority?)
and life events and marriages can go in there, a vast expanse of data,
and there will be links to other authority systems like wikipedia or neeco
and so each will have assigned authority id record linked to open id record
rb: and it deps on how open they are..
--------
TOPIC: plugins and configurations
--------
and we can see how much of a plugin is related to a configuration file..
and so we will look at configuration file and see where plugins are and
what all is editable in a plugin.
so now we open VS and dive through it..

looking at sobek github source file: sobekcm_item_viewers.config

TOPIC: now we see demo of web page for system-wide settings
on web interface..
-
now it will be dry..
and also on sobek repo page left side,
go to item plugins and tools..
smarttool is at the bottom
but go to the top
to see how to create a new metadata plugin,
which is a good source to look at other examples..
--
so the wolfsonion one is nice for builder..
and custom md is a long and intricate process..

TOPIC: need metadata creation helper class
rb and mvs we need a helper class

rb started a new one that needs many fields...
item viewer plugins exist, see links on this page for rti item
viewer, and 2 more and richard created.
and so if create a plugin..

TOPIC: Changes coming - also engine api endpoint plugins work..

but until version 5 there may be more configuration..
and we had to change some tags when we dled the new jpeg viewer..
make your new viewer, if it is a plugin, in a separate github repo
and they are injected with new config info plus dll
so we will look a new configuration information now we will run through
where to see online and the new config file
and also the new item viewer layout (it will be similar for collection viewers).
==

So in config folder,  sobekcm/config/ have a user folder.
and it is not choosing one other or other.

See system settings, reading log to see whole list of config
files that were read..
and must turn off iis and turn back on to get these config files re-read now.
--

TOPIC: So see config fields reading log and config file reading order
and see the output.

So see it reads all info config/folder first,
and in alphabetical order,

and then it reads all your plugins subfolders (siblings to config,
and then the config\user folder)
so the core idea is the concept to do as much in plugins as posisble,
so the config/usr config file sobekgital_engine+ips.config file.
he might make a plugin if did it over again,
but make almost all you can into a plugin
the idea of config user FOLDER is a way to mediate diffs bw plugins,
so we can still use it like today
but in future maybe call it really a plugin
and in future may add a way to say which plugins would be read in first
so you can order them
and also the config user folder config files are a way to mediate.

TOPIC: so now looking at sobeckm aggregation_viewers.config see this file.
we did here, a way to inject code into the header see line 26 the
<htmlHeadWriters> and we needed this because London needed to add the json info..
see digital.soas.ac.uk
they created a new front end
clicking on discipline baio juan...
no just scrolling,
and they sort of use a tile look instead of text.

now we see digital.soas.ac.u/d_bao

and the home page is here, and no home tst, and some collections
as here have menu item 'about' at far right
and the tiles are selected server side, the first 14 or so
but with the config file here..
you can inject code in header at collection level as json.
and your plugins should do this injection
so here can inject anything you want in the header.
almost all we have here now. this is the default one, so it is safe
TOPIC: clearall keyword
enough to say <Clearall /> (but not usually)
in code I might put basic aggregation info,
which is why you see clearAll a lot,
to make sure all in memory is cleared, or in an config file,
you can use this.. in version 4.11 or just today's latest github code
and see sobekcm_brief_item_mapping.config

TOPIC: and now in the METS..

the METS is read by the engine and then mapped
into a brief item and sent to the web,
which is used for all its public interactions,

TOPIC: so to mets item mapper maps between the mets and brief item

must map to briefitem to make web know about it..

TOPIC: and sobekcm citation config has diff citation ses
so you can at least select it from the behavior screen
and now see system wide settings .. under settings/...
under ui configuration/citation viewer.
here you see a list of each view.
and citation sets give the order?

so when a user sees a citation this is the order of the metadata,
and the search code AU is used for creators
and if AU appears it says creator is linked.
so you do not have to search yourself.
and last column says customdisplay creator_SectionWriter,
you can say to create your own..

and so see for spatial coordinate under subjects spatial coverage row,
customdisplay(SpatialCoverage_SectionWriter)

TOPIC: So you can overwrite citation order of tags, etc..
rb: wrt temporal coverage, add support for items before common era (AD)
--

TOPIC: and see top level contact form, and individual contact form can
differ, this is sobekcm_contactform.config
so can overwrite with another config under the aggregation level.

TOPIC:systemwide settings engine configuration endpoints maybe REST API?
A read only list of engine endpoints, also gives the method that
is called in your code, and bottom? shows the class that is being called..
--

see page content for component c9 and restrictions we see with R0 and R1..
with modify and Read Access attributes.
-

TOPIC: So in sobekcm item viewers, id="OG' allows to inject ogg,
and when including search engine root, they will get this item in the header,
and the OG is useful in the header a new one.

TOPIC:and see sobeckcm item viewers.config..

and go look at setting page see html viewers/subviewers
and there will be an item one shortly
so see these rows
this is a combo of what is in the db and the config file..
so if enabled column is -, then it is not enabled,
but see class is not implemented.
and the db gives view order and menu order.
and config file says who displays it
and it views the ui code you will use by default.
---
TOPIC: and default view column checkbox/flag means that for a new item that
is created in a system, those views are added..
and also when editing an item they appear as viewer options to select or deselect
so the system now has every view attached to it that is possible to show
and now every item has a pdf viewer attached..
TOPIC: so every item with a pdf has a pdf viewer attached,
but the viewer will show only for the pdf item (if it exists in a particular  VID)
-
we do have a way to say always add this view..
and mvs has said that..
so would never be able to turn a viewer off

if you check on that/its always add column.
but usually only used for mgmt views
and see for mgmtViwer="true" in the config file..
--

TOPIC: and if same management, mgmt, order, they appear in same drop-down, ddown, together,
but if diff order, they appear differently.
now see line... a new layout file refs a source file
under sobekcmhtml/itemviewer_default_layout.html
see it is like an old sobek file
and see [%section xxx%] syntax at top
and if compare that html to ld version of ufdc, see the view source..
you can see the tasmeestgart of a item is <section itemscript itemtype
so when item is first implemented
it reads its source file item viewer default_layout.html,

you also have to restart web server,
so whenever add an item all this text is there....
so they have directives that define sections..
so could use this for three elsevier viewers to not have to change base
source code..

so see section L:top comes from our config file
sobekcm_item_viewers.config file. it.
TOPIC: see there layout id="Default" source.
and see under section writers
and section name top.
read by item viewer section writers.
and see about 5 or six show.
see ViewerNav_ItemSectionWriter.
and also line 43 shows [%section:POSTVIEWER %],

just not used here,
but if want to also show a bit of citation at the bottom,
you could create new item viewer method and tag it here,
a new plugin..
-
MVS; a good eg is thumbnails, and if you wanted to show something
under the ...

then eg, to look like contentdm, to have small section at bottom,
either get rid of citation entirely or use the poseviewer.. so
using this technique you can drastically change the way your item
viewer is written..

mvs - this is similar to what we will do with the collection viewer

TOPIC: now see config default sobekcm_mapeditor.config
an example - this is the mapeditor we will try to allow adding
coordinates... to get working in future

TOPIC: and see sobekcm_metadata.config -
just marching down the list of files under config/default
this shows how to add and read and write md
TOPIC: and .microservices.config
this is only for the user iface,
and we had sobekcm engine

TOPIC: and we have microservices that tells the web which endpoints to go to.
but we could run the engine on one webserver and ui on other server

TOPIC: and we could have our own services (REST API endpoints?) and not
use [BASEURL] syntax but overwrite to go to our own endpoint..
--
so this also shows you which endpoints we are actually using
so see first client get-complete-aggregation'
you could write your own service
to return similar data to what the current url returns

likewise if you create new custom code you may want to use this,
but rather for plugins usu not used, but can be (not used so far)

------
TOPIC: next topic is oaipmh.config OAI-PMH
------

This is the harvesting protocol, and it now supports dublin core,
oa_dc and it has the Class, that writes it, and in a plugin you

could add another third line to serve oai or other in a different format..
and other viewers may not go away..

but we see file other_viewers.config

TOPIC: file qc.config, has existed a long time
it lists diff errors that would be available and can assign to diff people
and more importantly you can define new division types..
eg advertising, plkicia data, and you can assign to diff users
working on diff projects, and can give a user a new profile to
limit their dd lists of their gui...
have been in dlc toolbox a long time.

TOPIC: And new results viewers, config is added...

See here
these are the diff results viewers by default..
and it is easy to add new ones and override one..
and you .. the system does expect to find a brief view and table view..
and it is easy to overrite existing or create new ones here, and
it includes the icon to disply in upper left corner..
-
but this is our own main results viewer..
and this is complete may not need another but may perhaps choose
another way to use item viewers..
--

TOPIC: and see file static_resources_cdn configa cdn content delivery network
and all the javascript is here, etc,
so here we have also resources_cdn(secure and local)config
so when go to sobekcm settings..
so go to demo site. and go to guid settings system/server settings (from db)
and see static resources source (local cdn cdn secure local),
and if drop in new config file the choice will appear in ths dd list..
so can edit to put the resource(s) to link to put on local,
eg  if on a plane without inet access and need to test develop sobekcm

but by switching to cdn, now our default, we hit a content delivery nw,
and it is faster for users not close to you your webserver,
but closer to a node on the cdn network.. so good.
Choice cdn secure is served https worlwide over cdn newrok a new one
and other file ...secure.config.. see served via cdn.sobekdigital.com
is https here, so if want to use https, switch to use cdn_secure

TOPIC: now last file is template_elements

so here, see template and see online..
in Mark's mydemo in systemwide settings, under ui/template elements
under systemwide settings
so here is read only list of of fields you can have there
this report page also shows the actual ememment that is shown in the screen.
-
see gen settings under heading of email settings..
so if you have a plugin yourself, you can add your own settings

and it could say myplugin settings could appear there...
mvs has not had a case, so far, to need it though,
but you can use system wide settings for plugins..

TOPIC: now the config file info under settings/config/files

see this text.. it tells the order it reads these things..
and plugins would appear under config_viewers.config
so if enable a plugin, see this page to verify it found your new config file
and then can click on the option reading log and it will show where
it was found in sequence, and as it reads each one, it gives a bit of
info on each tree it is parsing..
-
So this is really what the engine reads
so the engine ignores the microservices.config file, which is the
good reason why it does not announce it was parsing anything -
and this is actually ok for this one config file
all others would say one liner after the Reading.. line..
so this is helpful

TOPIC: and now see see builder settings section/page..

and you can see those setttings.
and your incoming folders are listed
--
so see admin/builderfolder/1
you should be able to choose net version which builder module folder
set you will use,.. and so for now we will do some stuff in the db.
and see settings/builder/modules page
TOPIC: and see section pre-process modules.. and it does pre processing,
item processing, post process module
and the md configuration section.. files readers writers..
we see briefly now, more later

TOPIC: now to settings/engine/authentication...
at bottom .. shibboleth authentication: not naled here today..
but for uf we will see details..
and this whole page are always going to be read only (by the web app),
so we have to edit config files for all this
and see brief item mapping on left

TOPIC: and see oai-pmh prototocol

see oai_dc and marcxml are enabled here..

TOPIC: and quality control tool is shown
and under ui configuration citation viewer....
and last see html snippets... these are top level html things like
the html snippets, the usage emails..
they now can be edited here, though, so now this section CAN be edited
via this web page

TOPIC: last section is the filename extensions, and it gives a list
-and now click on admin/settings/extensions/1 (TEI)

so we want to say run some sql script when a plugin is enabled,
and add a new section after the plugin info with user-specified config info.

mvs - so if you store new md in the ..
and it must be mapped to the brief item..
the brief item goes to web and web must know it will be displayed
in the citation as well..
and must also be in templates if you want to edit it.

TOPIC: (FUTURE DREAM?) editing templates online.. md used to be more fixed..
the intent is to be able to click on your templates
and have a ddlist to add certain md to the template..
-
t1231
rb: tells his people that we can do customize md ..
t1232 off to lunch - on patio by the pools - Radisson at Cape Canaveral.
t
-
TOPIC: customizing the appearance -

TOPIC: now collections - customizing appearance...
if in the demo instance on mvs laptop
so now for most accessible
for people in customized collections can go to internal header,
manage admin view admin/edit/aggr...
so see dloc and can say dloc/edit to edit content and edit their home
page of their collectionand create a slide viewer.

this is the key point of trying to provide data about their collection..
so this iface works well, not too sophisticated

can immed go into source view, but it does strip some tags, not sure why
so if h3 and inline style fails.. it might now work
but you can upload images well..
so can add a banner, edit width and height, nice
and put it anywhere within the text
so you only save this home page.
so different for home pages are banners and buttons on bottom under subcollections
and the buttons will point lower but have a link back up
and can see admin/editgaggr/dloc/e on an edit page
and here can add home page for diff language
and can add banners, new banners
and then click a language from dd list for that banner
if their browser says this is their primary country of the web user...
--

based on their browser setting
and see now tab appearance..

TOPIC: you can assign it to a webskin (under another level of mgmt)
and at bottom it shows behavior active or appears on home page.

TOPIC: now see tab search,any collection admin can choose a search segment/style, etc..

and so a requirement, rqt, for plugins and widgets is you will want a picture
to show so they can select it
and see toward bottom they can add map search and at bottom..
but when adding plugins a challenge is how to support all this via plugins..

TOPIC: eg one ddlist option.. for map search default area...
(the default is 'zoom to extent)
because we have some london papers in this projet,
so now you can select florida
and now can also do custom choice..
but you can input your own zoom and latitude and longitude
-
TOPIC: and now see tab results
to change or select your facets on left

TOPIC: and tab metadata can set up md browsing..
and can add see dd list..
say add affiliation and difficulty, etc..
this is simple for user to select

less simple though is web skin changes..
TOPIC: we can update html headersfooters, css and javascript,
and can also to collection level css and javascript too,
but still more complicated, too much for a collection manager to expect to do.

TOPIC: so back to webskins -
can create a new webscin called railroads,
see system admin appearance/webskins
and make a new one called railroad collection web skin
and save it, and then view it..
and say edit railroad admin/editskin/wrailroad/c?n=railroad
and see the soruce..
and the tab javascript is there but does not work to edit pre-extant js
so SHOULD be able to edit js (a shortfall now),
but now it does allow first-time adding.. of js,
or in table css stylehseet you can come update
and add your owns styles at bottom..
and to call the js, you need to ..
or can use jquery to attach it to on render,
or thought the webskin you can use or include the js here,

so use webskin first if you want, and then look at editing individual
collection under admin/edit/juv/e
and webskins now has the choice railroad.

so those are the current webskins under which a collection may appear,
that is why you have dupliate webskins allowed, settable..
so first one is selected if a collection with the x.. does not allow this..
it only comes into effect if you have webskins that are not listed
in these webskins..

-t1:23

TOPIC: so see admin/portals.. and see url segment entry, dloc.com PURL

say it has dloc.com in the url
and see field portal name is dloc

and system abbrev is dLoc and default webskin is uvides say
and select from dd list iuvi -added automatically
and change purl to be ufl.dloc.com

TOPIC: webskins continued
so if a user comes in and their url contains udlco.com,
they go to that webskin on bottom of page of admin/portals..
so when time to create webskin for an individ request,
it checks the url progal/segment
and it selects their default webskin,
and also in url could say ?skin=someskin,
and it should then use that webskin..
-this is a way to override

so everything is a portal,
but it is whether it is the default portal on that page

now to another page
at collection level, say to l/admin/editaggr/juv/e
ie under appearance tab,
you can create a js under the collection level here too under appearance
if you hit button enable and it creates a custom stylesheet juv.css
and you can edit that... so this is only for this one collection

so here you add css, but this viewer could be better, to do css checking..
so this is a way not using the webskin abilty to do it at an individual
collection level..
at this aggregation-level css..

but the js has not made this iface yet, but it is there
mvs prefers to do a webskin personally -

t1328
TOPIC: now 2 other ways to customize collections
rb has most questions

TOPIC: future version plans
lastly as we move toward this architecture, not there yet,
but as with item layout,
we will have a collection layout with collection widgets/plug-ins
and injected javascript/jsquery
-
TOPIC: webskin customize and jstree
now see digital soas.ac/ud/arte page
see page source here, see the js at webskin level script/text/javascript..
he clicked to see it at ..design/skins/SOAS/sOAS.js
-
it uses jstree library - good

so this is a good eg of customizing the site using the webskin js,
and here it expands the tree if it exists

TOPIC: and if it is an aggregation type page...
then we parse the json in the aggregation_json (see html soruce)
with type "application'json",
so this jil? library is in our sytstem by default
and he sees facets, banners.
and he sees views and searches
and you see in this json in the html soruce,
a bunch of child pages,
and see label About..

TOPIC: and so back to the js, it parses the object
and see it looks at each childPage and if it is an about,
then it adds an about to that menu..
oh, we also have a diff search than they have so we have fnTr..
some other function
so a good eg of using js to do a good customization at the end
where a...ac.uk/arte is really the aggreg menu

TOPIC: and the unchanging portions of the menu includes regions, subjects, languages,
archives.. etc,
and the thumbnails, etc done most entirely by webskins..
mvs - i say if these tile images exist it should be a homepage..
now it looks for a tile subfoldler
and if extant it will show this...
so we can see his copy of the agg page
under webroot/datesign/agregations/r)hg/images/TILES, a lot of jpg images.. so an admin can do this approach
-so three ways to customize collections..
-
-
TOPIC: results viewer customizations issues
t1335 rb - lets see africanfossils.org
 rb: this is a good eg dean/ has mentioned to me previously,
and if you click on the 3d models button, we see nice page..
and when you click on this.. these are 3dmodels,

rb:the q is can this all be done with skins and js and css..
or it is the content page folder configu/custmomization otion..

mvs - he would shy away from static web content pages..
rb i would just use it to inject a js app

mvs: i think you can so do this with a results viewer..
rb: but they dont like the banners...

mvs maybe need little changes to results html
and all this top part can be done with a results viewer
and the default css has width stmts that can be overwritten to pcts.. etc..

mvs can work with rb to help do this.
mvs - it depends..
mvs - to do this right I would do custom md for some of these
like tool type or category type

rb has used the darwin core facets and put in canned searches,
and the tools with site industry tooltype shows items would be facets
like protobiface,core,biface,flaked core,hammerstone,flake.
rb will ask mvs more individually

TOPIC: now back to collections customization

mvs one other thing here, and like the collection level css and javascript,
you can also create a custom html page that will be read entirely instead
of the default page

see -- just the home page of the collection can be done like this
entirely independent html with no idea of layout and no automaitc menu
all is custom and the back pages work fine..

eg you can put /all/ at the end of the collection and it looks normal,
but only this scustom collection home page is independently laid out, defined,
see ..collection/html/home/text.html and that shows directives with [%xx%] syntax

-t1345
now for items..

TOPIC: customizing items

TOPIC:  method 1 of customzing items method 1:

item changes - md updates, upload new files/images,
behavior updates -- any any anger of item should able to do this

TOPIC: method 2 of customizing items method 2 -
web skin changes include html headers/footers, css, js -

TOPIC: method 3 more complete customizing items method 3
is more complete, as we now have this in place including;
item layout, update citation configuration and/or new citation set
and assign it to this item, create custom citation element writers
that was 3,

TOPIC: item customizations METHOD 4: and 4 new item viewers/plug-ins

TOPIC: METHOD 5: and  5 can inject javascript/jquery to view item and do things
and then we can get in to robust item viewer and citation writer infrastructure.
so those are collections and items, the 2 biggies in our lib

TOPIC: ALSO and other customizing

1) static resources configuration.. to use your own css, eg,
and general plug-ins
and config changes,

and so this enables changes for most all customizations desired..
--
also see middlesexcc.sobeklibrary.com (maybe nj?)

t1348 -

TOPIC: creating a new engine endpoint - aka REST APIs

now to engine endpoints..
we go to systemwide settings and see engine
configuration on left, subitem engine server endpoints
and go to aggregations/all/json
and in url location just type localhost/engine/aggregations/alljson
(and protobuf and jsonp etc, xml are examples of formats)

so one thing to do was create a simple...
well...

mvs is talking with rb

now we look at the EDS one under richard bernardy github
a simple results endpoint..

we needed to have a config file..
sobekcm-plugin-endpoint-EDS

TOPIC: Robert - later notes 20180327

ALSO see sobekcm code in github, under
...SobekCM\config\samples\sobek_cm_egin_example.config
and follow along with the below narrative.. to find similar features of

See node Engine/Mapping/PATH shows Segment = /\'aggregations'
Which indicates this file defines active/served endpoints starting with
a URL like "...aggregations/"
Deeper into the xml are also other enclosing xml tags "Path Segment='xxx'""
where xxx is the next level deeper of the serviced URL, and the terminal
segment is defined in <ComplesEndpoint Segment='some_protocol'> where prototocol
may be json, json-p, protobuf or xml, and within this tag are multiple tags like:
<VerbMapping Verb= "POST",

[NOTE that at end it also  gives IP restriction ranges that may use
endpoints ]


END robert later notes...20180327

TOPIC: Engine endpoints and back to original class notes

this is ultimately what the plugin folder is, a config file and a dll
so his config file, for the entire plugin,

here he has extension code="EbscoServices"
and he (Richard..?) will add (developer) guides in the future like version guide and plugin guide

and he has admin info..
and most importantly, see the
<Assembly id - and the name=somemyplugin.dll">
is most important

and you only need to add assemblies with sobek code in them,
so if you have your own dll, in the same lib, your refs are now loaded..
so easier..
so this has not changed much.. we just have md about the plugin

The main section <Engine> has actual changes like atribute ClearAll;
so <Engine ClearAll="false"> and we define path segment plugins,
path segment ebsco, and autodoc had for docs
and endpoints are there with method seg Ebsco_Results_Json" prrotcol="JSON"

and similar line for segment = xml, component id=EBSCO_COMP,
method=EBSCO_Results_XML, protocol XML

-
mvs - actually 2 ways to show this, see his 2 endpoint tags,
when the "Verb=" attribute is not there, the default assumption is only "GET",
so cannot post to this one,

future? so a better way -  mvs will convey to allow get and post.. etc.
and the component ID appears again at bottom in section COMPONENTS.
So you can define a short id for a component and easily reference in multiple
VerbMapping elements

Now to another eg of this config file... would be..
mvs looks at his VS setup

under.. (see github, eg commit x ) filename:
sobekcm/config/default/sobekcm_engine.config.

and see line 178 or so path segment with autotodoc endpoint
[
<Path Segment="briefitemmapping">
  <AutoDoc>
    <Description> Gets the brief item mapping configuration information from the configuration files </Description>
    <RequestType>This endpoint does not support updates or deletes and only the GET HTTP verb is supported</RequestType>
    <Arguments>none</Arguments>
    <Returns>BriefItemMapping_Configuration object</Returns>
  </AutoDoc>
  <Endpoint Segment="json" ComponentID="C9" Method="GetConfigurationBriefItemMapping" RestrictionRangeID="R1" Protocol="JSON" />
  <Endpoint Segment="json-p" ComponentID="C9" Method="GetConfigurationBriefItemMapping" RestrictionRangeID="R1" Protocol="JSON-P" />
  <Endpoint Segment="protobuf" ComponentID="C9" Method="GetConfigurationBriefItemMapping" RestrictionRangeID="R1" Protocol="PROTOBUF" />
  <Endpoint Segment="xml" ComponentID="C9" Method="GetConfigurationBriefItemMapping" RestrictionRangeID="R1" Protocol="XML" />
</Path>

]
and now down to lines 362+ we see verbs
[
<Path Segment="custom">
  <ComplexEndpoint Segment="register">
    <VerbMapping Verb="GET" ComponentID="CUSTOM" Method="Register_User" Protocol="JSON" />
    <VerbMapping Verb="DELETE" ComponentID="CUSTOM" Method="Register_User" Protocol="JSON" />
    <VerbMapping Verb="POST" ComponentID="CUSTOM" Method="Register_User" Protocol="JSON" />
    <VerbMapping Verb="PUT" ComponentID="CUSTOM" Method="Register_User" Protocol="JSON" />
  </ComplexEndpoint>
</Path>
]

now skip down to lines 782 see verb mapping tag there

[
<ComplexEndpoint Segment="json">
  <VerbMapping Verb="GET" ComponentID="C5" Method="Get_Single_Milestones" Protocol="JSON" />
  <VerbMapping Verb="POST" ComponentID="C5" Method="Add_Milestone" Protocol="JSON" />
</ComplexEndpoint>
]
in this case we have a path ..../milestones/json,
and that the tail of our path (engine something/milestones/json

TOPIC: Engine endpoint rest api

and this is more like a rest api as we can do either a get or a post
so here we add a milestone to a webcontent page..
so in this eg, you config like this to support more verbs than just GET

TOPIC: -now back to rb github repo (put a link here...?)
URL https://github.com/rbernardy/SobekCM-plugin-endpoint-EDS

see pluginfo-folder-
and see subdir source and EbscoServices/EbscoServics.cs
https://github.com/rbernardy/SobekCM-plugin-endpoint-EDS/blob/master/source/EbscoServices/EbscoServices.cs

and see the two methods.. with args HttpResponse Response, List UrlSegments, etc:

public void EBSCO_Results_XML(HttpResponse Response, List<string> UrlSegments, NameValueCollection QueryString, Microservice_Endpoint_Protocol_Enum Protocol, bool IsDebug)

and:

public void EBSCO_Results_JSON(HttpResponse Response, List<string> UrlSegments, NameValueCollection QueryString, Microservice_Endpoint_Protocol_Enum Protocol, bool IsDebug)

---

TOPIC: walkthrough example using easiest way to program endpoints plugins

mvs: so to program plugins, it is easiest to :
-- work within SobekCM in the VS objects
-- and maybe go within SobekCM_Engine_Libary/endpoints
-- and create new endpoints, call it a class, simpleEndpoint.cs
-- and we get our default using stmts and notice that it extends
   EndpointBase,
-- it is just a peer class Endpoints.EndpintBase you can use,
-- but not nec, but a helper class to give you basics

So here define public class SimpleEndpoints:EndpointBase
and put code there

and also in VS for sobek go for the config,
go to sobekcm and go to plugins

OR just add it into the config/usr folder as a separate config file,
which we will do now.
so creating new file using windows explorer first..

So start with RB example plugin..
just grab his folder put it on your webroot

and under webroot/plugins
and rename it simpleEndpoint Services the folder,

and rename his Ebsco '.config' file to our config folder x.

and we can add any number of config files or .config of xml files in this folder
or any and all subfolders will be read..

a good eg is creating custom md, and if so, you might want a subfolder for each md.

you may need a folder for the endpoint, and another for briefitem mapper, whatever
makes your code eaiser to manage, and just put in apt config files..

now we edit, our copied config file we renamed
to be simpleendpoint services.conf,
based on rb changing name="Simple endpoint services"  version="1.0",
and add a description... change author names
and leave <permissions? as is
and <assembly .. we can add our dll name (anticipated dll after we make it,
but comment it out now)
now (still in the config xml file)
under engine mapping/path say plugins and subpath simple and subpath2 is
also called simple

and request type is english saying it is "GET" only
and under component change id to SIMPLE_COMP and change class..
and refer to them in the prior <Endpoint tag(s)... etc and
change the path now in the xml to plugins simple/results..

and now he just copied the code into his mouse and in vs now is creating
file under config/usr new file
simple_endpoint_services.config?

and now in vs mvs is pasting in the text for our new xml.

So we are creating this 'plugin code and config' in our entire NEW web VS
project just for convenience, but when we get it working, we can
extract our two files, the dll and config and call that our plugin - nice.

so now we go under sytem settings in config, last item
and see it did find our new  file
and so we look in the reading log and we see it found our new config.. fine.

t1412

topic: continue looking at engine server endpoints on system settings web page
so now at bottom under plugins/simple are our 2 new endpoints..
and it shows our component info in the component table of the web page
under system wide settings for this ... these endpoints..
-
now we add our source code for the methods.
we just used  endpointbase to help us out as it has certain methods.
to tell sobek how to invoke it..
and to define the expected signature per web verb, etc.. some nicities..
-so see the method arguments.. include url Segments, etc,
and request form provides get vs post verb type
and the protocol was given in the config file to serve
so now we go back to our config info..
and change class name so SimpleJson
and define the methods by exact name we said in our config file,
and can just do a Response.Write("In Simple_results=_JSON_method"):
and test it out, whether it is getting there when url is being visited..
and he goes out to add some usings..
using sytem.web, using system.collections.generic..
is all he needs to compile - just those 2..
and now testing both the xml and json ..
also added the using System.Collections.Specialized;

-
and adds
using sobckcmcore.configuration.engine
also and
system.web..
ok now compiles and tests the url..
so if he sets aggregations /code/json/dloc/en?debug=debug..
it shows all the good trace info..
and our code we must put a stmt to say if debug==true to show this trace..
very useful..
=
now engine/plugins/simple/results trying
no endpoint, but add to end json.. but still not found..
so diagnosing the issue...
look at bottom of report for engine endpoints..

now seeking in the report for simpleendpoints...
did have to make sure the config file was under the config/users
and the plumbing is done...
so now we make it DO something that we want it to do besides saying I am in method x.

ok, now looking in resultsservices.cs for some stuff to copy over..
-
note DO extend class ResultsServices
as it is BETTER than just extending endpointbase,
but has more good stuff for results  helper methods like enumeration info
and Get_Search_Statistics..
and so here we can use all the search helper stuff..
now at line 65 in resultsservices.cs
mvs - so when you do a search it gets both things,
the search stats that does not really change,
it says the number of hits
and the facets we will display --
they will not change during listing 20 results..
-
so struggle 1 is objects are a bit complicated maybe a bit deep,
and the second complication is to make 2 calls
to see how many items are in the results and struggle 2 is to get the results..
-
so that is explanation of why we are doing this now..
so now we are implementing something..
and trying to implement what we want in our new little methods
Simple_Results_Json,
and in here you can make another db call, say you can do:

using System.Data
DataTable fromDb =new Database.Engine_Database.Builder_log_search..
whatever, intellisense gives a lot..
see we could see builder logs or Get_All_User_groups to get webskin
but first line should really be
Tracer localTrace = new(Custom_Tracer();

so now you have a tracer,  but do 'using SobekCM>tools' to use tracer:
and now we have a trace and a DataTable
now it is a List<User_Group>from
and must do:
using SobekCM.Core.User
and next line just says
Serialize(fromDb, Response, protocol< string,Empty);

and in 3 lines you can create this endpoint
to create tracer, get usergroups frmm db, and call serialize..

now test the url again local/engine/plugins/simple/results/json..
cool, it works..

See: https://github.com/SobekCM/SobekCM-plugin-simple-endpoints
--

t1441
and now add lines
List <string? names = new List<string>()
foreach (user_group thsi user in fromDb)
names.ad (thisuser.name)

and serialize that and test the url
and now it works with ["everyone"], only one name. nice.

So simple to do small endpoints
and searching is a bit more complex
and always serialze something as LAST call in the method to serve the endpoint..

so 2d line should have localTrace.Add_Trace("SimpleEndoings.SImple_Resutls_JSON"_;

so now when you use debug... so add code line
if (isDebug){rResponse.WriteLine({debu mode detected");... etc
or copy paste this...
Response.ContentType = "text/plain:
response.write.. etc.. and get it .. the trace..
so this worked fine..

the if debug and trace clause was added at the bottom,
same thing if you detect an exception... show the info..
so every endpoint method has some code with these snippets in there.
- very nice!

-mvs t1445 - so the debug portion is defined as anyone who puts debug=debug
or maybe debug-true..
and so we may also add to debug an ip list of people who can use debug..
but now anyone can put this on the end. and see the trace..
-
new topic
TOPIC: now look at search results example - rb's example..
--

--
20170425 tuesday start sobekcm code camp

t0170425t0830
now pulling latest sobek from github with changes mark made last
night:

pulled to my vbox machine UF-Win7 on my hp laptop..
-
got a usb key from mark, but downloaded it under my linux ubuntu
host in Downloads because my vbox usb reader is not setup...
-

now see the latest code downloaded and see file under So ekCM in
the webapplication and cd to directory Batch Files

and see file sobek_precompile.bat, and ark use the wix installer
that runs heap? to check
so if we run sobek_precompile.bat.. no first edit it
and change line to set source= to the curetrent path of the sobekcm-web-aplication
and set iis= to where ever you want to precompile to, soem tem directory..

now run it

and see where precompile you selected
and now go to precompile tmp (and it also has other subdirs?)
and next time it wil only update new/changed ones

and see the precompile outptut dir precompile/output/staging64 --
so under the second updated riectory - it is created there because
we did not change the precompile.bat file..


and see under staging64/config

it has a sobekcm.config template and some user folders, etc which should
be empty...

and this is what we essentially roll out to the web..

and so we really do not need to roll out mySobek all the time

and in this case the default  directory has not changed
and data folder not too useful to roll out either

and the folder config is usualy important
and mvs usually grabs only
 -- folders bin and config and all the files and copy it to the webroot,
and that is it

and even outside visual studio it should not have overwritten your config
and you should be good
and when copying you will get notices as to wehtrh to merge or
override and say yes to all and set default to do same

so notice the files now under folder webroot

so that is upgrade deployment

sobekcm.aspx is just a stub the compilation tool creates
2 reasons to precomipile
 1) it prevents code injection, possible by root admin, but if they get
root on your webserver, they could not inject any code to aspx, etc
as it is in a precompiled state

and 2) also quicker and cleaner as no source files hang out on your webserver..

so we precompiled and copied over your webroot,

so now it, webroot, has folders bin and config and those filsw

and the msi installer has it all precompiled a will so I compile it and create the installers..
-
and so now the
rb also asks of sql upgrade scripts

so go back to github repo for sobekm web app under folder SQL
and go there to see folders fo rlast 3 or so previosu versions, and you run the version 4_10_2 ql script vs your database.. go toget to today's version.. on github
and that updates the database..
-
nd it shoo... ld run quick the sql update stuff
and he has uder folder previous versions even older sql update scripts
and he adds sscripts named Mark_2016..etc, the mark*scripts are update scripts..
and then the complete.sql script..
so the mark script is idempotent as it does not change constraints, etc that are alredy there
and at end the db version is already always updated.
and if enw sp is eneded, see it says if object-id.. is not null .. exec..
--
t0905
so now we go back to turn our code of yesgterday and our config and combine them into a plugin
and go to url sobekreposityr.org on left /l/help/tools
ssee under section engien api endpoint plubis.
ad=nd he had written.. and see now onunder git repo.. sobekcm_enginelibrary/endpoints... well he had moved them out
and yesterday he ahd put them ... those two files?
nwo we are in S under sobekCm, object sobekcmm_enbine_biary /endpoints were those two files..
now we make a new
vs fiel enw project and select visual c% an calss library as we jsut maek adll and hightlight create direcgtory for solution on vs 2015 on botom right
and in naem put plugindemo
and we shoudl ahve object sxplroer with small tree on left
and on proejct name it will say outptu type is class library
and now we msut bring in dlls from sobek main core
so once solutio is down, rigt lcick and see pys on projet and make sure project fwork is .ne framework 4.5.. in the projet settings.. (or application settings, on topl left thsi vs widnow ways application..
-
so make sure it is .ent frameork complete, not clietn profie if it gives option
and canput it say under make a volder at same level of the solution near plugindemo and pfodler naem new will be dlls
and now go to get uner sobeckcm/bin folder
and youu probably need sobejcmk core lib, engien library and tools library and copy those to your plugins dll folder, depenidng on what you did in your usings statmesnets, or aslo resourc elibrary isf you used mets reader
or if you only worked with brief item.. these dlls are here.. so mark knows where these objectgs are in his dlls..
probably per the object explorer... tree

now in vs do add reference prorwse and go in wexplorer wehre yoru folders is..
and now he is in vs eiwndow reference manager..
and he uses browse and in ref mgr iwndow-plguin dmeos, go to assemblies, system.web and go to checkbox and hit okey
and so you can get rid of class 1
and in obje exploer, and add, exisitng item and from fiele explorer, git repo FS.. go get your plguinoflder where you put your cs files from yesteray and you should have on rig tin objet explorer your referneces you added, for the two files you will have copied from the web app file space, fiels simpelitemendpoint.cs and simple resutlsendpoint.cs...
ok..
..
t0916...
and so we are working inour new vs projet for plugin demo --  a patchwork of copy pastes of soem fiels fom our 'pluginabble' config and cs fiels we creatd yesterday in the mai wobekcm web app..
OK.
(maybe a script should do all this stuff.. jockeying files between VS solutions... to create a dll of our plugin).
..
rb: his VS orig web app is working because it is stil using
yesterday's so for testing, we should use another namespace so
the config can reference our enw plugin dll assembly, namespace,
and not keep using the wone we set yesterday in our config .
--
now the only otherpart of the pluin you need is yoru config file
so we are in plguindemo/DLL
and now we are now in file explorer
and will crete new folder plugidemo..
and you copy plbuindemo dll, and we put a new folde rwith our dll and our config file, just c:/pguinfolder..
and so he goet ONLY the config file he used yesterday,
and now today all the info is fien, but now ALSO need extension info, but ifyou changed yoru namespace, then you change yoru compeontn Class attributes naems aptly
and now we will change the component Assumbly attributes in tthis sxml file.
-simpleendpointservices.conf is the file name, but in it is xml type info text configuration.
--
so now make sure on the assembly attribute, maek sure the dll name you tive it is t eh same
so on line 21 for ta assembly with soem i anytyou want, attriute 'name' should be the actuall dll name you made today in your plguinonly clas library project..
-

but the ssssembly id must be a unique value across all yoru plguins, not just whithin this config file.. IMPORTANT
so what is in yoru assembbyly id, is what you put in yoru component assembly= attribut value at the bottom.
-
-
so now the plugins doen
and you can see xamples on sourceforge
but generally when we make available on github, y
we usually have aplguin-folder ans source also we maek available to open soruce it, 2 sibling folders at top level of git repo
and the plguin folder should sort of match the extension code- value in your config file, so use the tag extension atrribute code value with your vfolde name of yoru plguin-folder
and then drop thsi in yoru pluibjs folder underneat yoru web.. and then we jsut have to enable it
node: webroot is wwwroot on yoru dev machien there IS an inetput/wwwroot driectory too.. nevrn noticed before.. just like on production.
-
t0930

and now we enable it via the web gui
so login on web sobek
and reset yoru cache and go to the in systewide settings unde .. go there..
and the enable button is still way over on the right..
.. that is go .. down to extensiosn -- you should see yoru plguin listed as an exension

and when you click it you should see your enable or disable button way to the right - he may change that..

and th plugin has a falg that say can never be disabled except by the host admin... so a simpel weeb ueser may not disable some.. mark reseres for himselve, else a colelction mgr may disable and really confuse you... about the csue fo rsoem pernicious bugs..
-
and after you click enable
go to the source files list .. on thsi page
and go to configuration files seelctio reading log and make sure it read it, and you will see thoese.
and then go look at list of engine endpoints and see the urls there
and then put in that url and make sure it works inyour browser..
--
so see and validat you like the xml or json output looks like what you want/need.
-nice.
-could do a plugin for deeply rooted..
- any questions on publishing plugings..

so this proecrue is the easisest, work inside the soekcm core code web app an work i there, and once it is working rooll it out into a new solution i vs, createt the plgin there with the config, modified as eneded for pugin naems or class naems..
rb is familiar
-
and we can also alow plguins to read its own config info say to have a verbose flag that it can observe and hnor.. mark is noting a need for that..
-
o wrt configuration info.. you can also write your own configuraiton reder within your plugin.. and you can youve yoruw own cofig reader.cs wihtihn your plbugin
and mvs thinks key-value pairs are susually adequate..
-
-rb ahas reset sobek cche, but an iss glitch?, and you add atriute to whwre youdo script tag for js, and it suggested to just hadd a randoe nuber, and i did, but isss seems nasty in that regard..
rb like set expire date or something.. and soemtiems I still need to restart isis, but not a sobek issue..
-
---
c ulder fucntiaonlity and packetes you can look at..
so bulder-
it looks at builder folders and waits for incoming maerial to be loaded
and so we will run builder in visual studio and we will laod bulk resource packages as we do it..
--

so go to syetmwide settings
on left see builder settins
and may not ned to change thee in test, or mayb bulder iis-logs directory if you want uage stats
and mai builder input folder usu alreadyset ok
but o incoming folders you have to set that..
--
t0946
so he needs to ddefine his incoming fodles
and see button does have a button to add a new builder folder
and he does it via web iface here.
so generally you need to create three subfolders, named as you wish, but common
names are inbound, processing, failures

and should usu be empty.

so we create those foldes and put them in the admin/builderfolder/new page's
form..  and can give a descriptive name

and do not need to check archiving, nor copy tiff nor perform checksum
(checksums slow it down)
and check for allow mets with a record status of delete in this folder do
check that

and the last one also check allow resource files in ap..
and do save and done

and now systemwide setting show our single builder folder under exiting
builder folders on righthand side

and in files go to builde/inbound and copy all i pacakes to his inbound..
going on now.

and we go to visual studio 2012 on his machine...
so he has 110 items there.. copying...

t0950
--
now in VS to run the builder.. now in the builder project in vs..
now in obj explorer, make sure your config file is write ..

go to fs in web app/soekcmbule/bin/debug and folder config and file
sobekcm.config and set the connection string there
-
now in ssms going to his db and
now he is going to inetpub wwroot config and finding his current
sobekcm.config there that the web is using and copying the connection string

mvs and make sure you have subfolders images and kakadu and logs,
and if you installed the builder somewhere you can drag those folders and
copy under your in/deug folder to get thsoe.
-
and now we go to our git repo webapp, bin debug/config and
see there we see ghostcritp_executable. and egingine..
and he edit a nwere once ondig file sobekcm.config with intance tab..

. and he is editing configruationoai-pmh..?

and now to system settings systemwide settings..
just typing url admin/settins/builder/folders in url
now looking at db sobekcm_settings, field
systembase URL.. he will edit

adding application server url is http://localhost and als for system base
urland also for image server network http://lcoalhsot/content

and image server nw is c\inetpub\wwwroto\conent\
and and create wwroot content folder in case it does not do it..
now running builder in a cmd window...
-
now changing static pages locations to ..wwroot\data..
maybe needed.
-
now maybe need to run as administrator.. it helps.. as it writes underneath
wwwroot.. so remember to do that..
-

now restarting the builder
and there are a coulple of invalid packages, eg a subjet id used mutliple
times, that is the mets scheme validation there.. maybe new? for tha
particular validation
now in builder can o to debug mode or see in application window that it is
now indebug mode.. aside..?
now looking under cotnetn (resources netwrok) and see items and keypair
folders appearing.
-
and no derivs needed here
-

t1008- now he finds the items in sobek web searches..
and the images are not shoiwng up
so go to systemwidw setings sytej/server settings to field... .. he gods to an item to see variouimage files
but in thumnail view..
he finds internal server errors for some items..
and viewall items is showing some images fine in page images viewer
and it looks similar to streaming pager
except pages are extant in the resources. for that viewer assumptions

the builder goes to your engine or website and reads this dat from the engine now,
ie the sobekcm.config file
when sobekcm was more static the builder could make more asusmptions,
but as we ursh more things in..
the builder knows needs to know more
and if multi instance,
the first instance of builder will pull the config info from that instance,
then go to second instance and pull config info form there and run that and
dumps every minute it goes to that instance
and says give me your config data.
so now if you go to builder folder it execucted
you will see the plugins folder
and there will be the plugins enabled on your web
the plugin we did is not imptj
but if custom md plugins, it sees ifne plugin on the website,
it will pull those plugins down to the builder as well
for engine api ntoas ipt ue does the same thing
so you tell the builder how to read and write md,
and so it pulls down those pis automatically
and you will notice in your folder it has pulled them down.
..
and it still works as ultiintnce see some config we see with microservices.. tags
now next we look at customizing builder by creating a new builder module
so a couple of diff places where the builder runs..
--
and he has an image of this process... maybe on sobekrepostiry.org..
he seeks it..
t1031
and this architecture has been around 1.5 years now..
we see ..
the diagram on a sobekrepo org/sobekcm/architecture/builder the image
and on top row it looks and processing ready submissionpackage ssips and it waits..
and repeats again.. over and over.. (should have an arrow wrap around)
and now it misses addl work needed box.. so we add later
and on bottom big box..
and it runs preproces modules that can do any number of things...

if you had data in memory you wanted to use and load..
eg if you needed a list of accessionu jbers you might load them in preprocess
and later upload the used accession ides in the post process
before it goes to incoming folders it looks for addl work nee..
wait iterate through all incoming folders
and each row is a set of custom optional folder modules..
(note it does not build static pages here now - a new thing)..
-now looking for his vs of his builder project.. we see code
see builder library/modules in sol ex
and see also FDA folder/class,
and so every time the builder wakes up
it will look and see are there any digital archive reports to process.
done once when it wakes up..
that is one place you can say you want something to happen every minute
of every day you would stick there
and now see under modules are the folders folder
and cs files there, one is applbibidRestrictionedmobile.cs
and one cs file says it sees large jpegs it wants to go to tiffs or jp200s.
it is called convert largeJP..
next or w down more is updateNonbibFodlers.cs
it looks when you have bibvid file at top level of folder,
it creates the bib/vid subfolders

and normal agins will apply
and modules.. validate and classify module -
here you can change the way validation happens.
and final one that runs is middle move aged packages to process max
now broken down, used to be gigantic bunch of builder code..
so for each folder it figures out which packages are ready
or valid or if invalid they go to failure folder
and this creates list of available items across all folders
nvs and with wolfsonion the accession number was the folder name,
and it looks in the db and says does this accession number exist,
and it reserves bibvids, and it also does md stuff,
as all he gets is mods files..
and it creates a mets through a proccess,
and it is done before it becomes a valid bibvid folder..
and then it runs many different item level modules
see builder code..
but on web firsts see builderbuilder modules under systemwide settings,
see section for preprocess module
see item processing but he needs to add folder modules
and he has an item deletion module
and a post process..
and now if incoming item has word delete,
it will now go through the delete process..
or you could override this to drop it in a recycle bin..
but if someone sends a delete bets they probably know what they are doin now.
and so it takes (msoft) office files
see class convertofficefilestopdf module -
it converts office files to pdfs, and see many class names with descriptions.
and each of these steps is independent not dep on others in this set of rows..

see ocr tiff files and description for clean any dirty ocr (non-unicode friendly)
check for sns in any loaded txt makes emails
create image dervivatives.
and all these things run..
and copy to archive folder if no folder just quits early.
also all this stuff is done for all new and addl work needed stuff
and toward bottom module see saveservicesMetsModule..
and saves to db and saves to solr lucent
and.. it does second from bottom does build static verion for SEO
but now it goes out and hits the seo class..
so see under view items.. itn a repo and pick one,
and append seo at end of vid or seo?robosomething.. he will tell us later
so the seo is an actual viewer it is now a management viewer added for each item,
you cannot not have it.. now he tries to pull up another...
so see in htmo viewers is SeO and robot is a url segment
so append segment robot to ta bit,  to see the seo info.
it shows the citation, and the complete image, or full text or more pages,
or if item has downloads the link would be here so here the builder does not
build this page, but it goes to the web
and builds it to serve quickly as an seo, an it is cached,
so takes 1 msec vs 45 msec if not cached..
this robot is new, not released yet..

and now see ufdc.ufl.edu/rss not lookgin great
but we also have data feeds see under webroot/data folder
(literally named webRoot for his machie)
See ufdc.ufl.edu/date/dloc_all.html when new release comes out,
another way to produce a list of links to search engines,
and want these pages to be similar to your own pages,
these are just lists that link back to your tiems with titles in hrefs,
so another way to feed search engines with info to link to
now back to coding. dev
now back to systemwide sttings,
and the item deletion module is just one module..
and see postprocss modules
but the folders are set into folder sets
and you can say some folder uses different set of modules than another folder.
so they put in items in diff folders per item types
the delete item module also deletes from solr
-
and so why you might create..
so builder module can observe vide files ..
and can copy over to video server.
these lists are maintained in the db
and the only post process is buildagregationbrowsesmodule
it also builds a site ma.. and other things,
and it really changed to not build html but now goes to the website to get it.
so that is the lifecyle of the builder and has spots to stick things.
and mvs may create a new incoming folder module and a new item one.
-
rb asks if this process is for incoming folders.
rb has marriage license project with separate aggregation with set terms in
the title in the processig stage..
rb so there is no incoming folder process for those..
rb does do bulk loading and project volunteers do the transcription..
and he has his package rep or route go through,
and rb asks if can do that as builder module, check the criteria,
mvs: but how does it know it needs to be processed.
rb so the type in the md fields text, human ocr,
and rbputs ready in the title...
and at this poitnt he is satisfied with volunteers work,
and rb must approve to make it live..

rb if i can do a builder module to automatically make it go live..
mvs so create a preprocess module..
mvs - are they selected for addl work when they edit the mt,
and so add a new module that checks if it is module x, an item module,
and if edited by person x, it can do sepcific things.
mvs: every web editing session sets the addl wrok flag.

so we ran into a break, and will come back at 11:10
and mvs shwos new emailuponsubmit config xmltag to set for a builder module to use.
t1057
-break until t1110
now for builder we in vs add another folder module
and under builder add a folder demo with just images files and the name of
the folder, demo, is the title simple
we gen a default mets file and decide he type
and in sox, we say if not a bib and no md in it,
lets generate a small mets file
so look in extant folder, and we will build here
see under sobekcmOcre/builder/modules are some abstract classes there
you have to reference when you take this module to move to own plugin
so look under builderr librarymodules folders and file udpate nonbibfoflder,
and see it extends abstractFoflderModule
and now we crate a new name for this..?
we will add now a class with name ... customNonBibFolders.cs
ok now get skeleton file
class customnbibfoldes:abstractFolderMoudle
and say public class and can kick to say implement abtsract calls,
and it shoves i DoWork method function signature
and these classes are non static clases
and you should not add members like provate string some_value:,
as all the work you do should be in the method Do WOrk and out above it in the clas..
except maybe a counter, as this object will be used to process every package.
so everything should be in your dowork class.
0-
so he grabs some summary and param  docs strings.
so if look in the core in abstract folders.. in core builder module inabstractFolerMoudle.c
see it uses arguments- new List
so one argument says this is a library folder
and another arg says these are museum folders
so you can have diff args come in
and see public InstanceWide Settings, and void ReleaseResoruces..
you have access to, and have some events we can fire off ourselves
for errors or regualr processing,
and study this cd file and the dowork method..
so we see file updateNonBibFolders.cs and this is similar
and under doWork we have string subdirs and its ars is builderoflder
and name incominpackages and deletes..
but really you want to work with builder folder,
and you do subdirs - directory.getdirs(buildroflers.inboud folder
look through them, get name of folder, see code
is it 10 digits or 16 digits with uscroe to detect the format...
and he goes through the code of udpatenonbibfolders.cs
and it looks for mets files and xml files and sees wh we have work
and see line that cleans any additional periods in the filenames first, a comment
and this looks at each file and renames
an create the new object..
here we create new mets file newitem.bibInfo.members.. whatever
and w lines are like newItem.Bib_Info.source.code - Arguments[1],
so this is interesting, as  we can use our argumetns here
now lower we have this item. for the necessary bidid..
so line 79 we do save new digital resource() call,
so we save the newbibid or reserve it
so it is not used by anything else,
so here we reserve the bib vid
and lines 1-83 we do some things line 86 save mets, and that is it.
so that is what the current one does..
-- so this file is in the github repo ubdatebnonbibfolder.cs
--
and see vs tools/extensions and updates
DEV TIP:
and install productivity power tools 2016 (and get 2016 community edition 2015 that is)
and that helps me find something..
when I have I get the lightbulb that shows the using that I want..
it is really great, it is very useful and quick to install  so get it
--
now looking at line 79 the directory.move. now
now he is inserting in his copy cusotnonbibfodler.cs line 69 ..  or 70
newitem.Bib_Info.soruce.Code ="iUSD";
and gibiinvsource.satmetn ="University of Sobek Digital..."
and newitembiid="AUTO"; he thinks this is special value to make auto.
back to line 24 or so, so standard we loop through these,
foreach string this SubdDir in subdirs..
and that was quick...
so nothing knows yet about this builder module, it is just a class there,
so we have to register it completely though the db
so go to db in sobekcm builder_module_et table,
these are diff sets of things tha run..
these roles are ets (sets?)  and so see Standard Pre_process modules,
standard post process, incoming item processing, incoming delete processing.
and module tupeid.. mabye 6 is a scheduled task.. not sure yet
and each can have diff se
so see incoming folder, it is set for module id 10,
and 10 is standard folder processing, adso 6 typeid is a folder type processing.
so see add moduleset id 10.. since that is the folder processing set
so so now we se a select * from sobekcm builder-module
where modulesetid=10 and order by Orde.. and see..
these are the individual builder modules that will run for things in module set 10
so first look at module sets and get module set it
and then look at sobekcm bullder-modules
and they are here in order...
so on far right is enabled and order and arg 1,2,3
and this we see class is set
and the class is the the full name
sobecmbuildelibrarymodulesfolder.movedagedpackagestoprocessingmodule,
has full name, so now we set ours for order 0 to be first processing steps
insert into soebekcm builder modulemodulesetid,moduedesc,[assembly[, class, enaled, orderso whatever we set there gets passed to use they are varchar max, so can putin there json string and parse in the builder module.. you can put in tons of data in there..
and use in your library.
so we need not set those now
vaotnientue sql values 10,'handle nonbib type incmoing packageswith no md','null (assemlvly, '', and 0 ofor order
and get namespace from the vs file namespace
and custom nonbibfolders from the vs class name, separated by period.
--

and put brackets around col names assembly enabled, order as they are controlled words.
and the row is now in the db
and now under folder builder//
and put under builder/incoming.. ?
and put bp in our first line of our DoWork()..
and in config folder...
gitrepo/sobemckeweb/ssobeccm bulder.bin/debug.. must add some folders, config
or go to program files sobeck builder
and grab all subfolders cicldiuig config, kakadu,images
all those folders and drop them in, and z3950..

and now start.. oops..

so add a breakpoint.. or look in sobekcm builder log

now debugging in sobek web app sobekcm builder debug config,
see the connection string looks right..
now try again from command line the builder.exe and now it hit our new breakpoint..
so now at lines 45+ or so we get all filenames, doing a regex.matches line.
and lines 63 + stepping though, setting
so it is stepping, saving the item we got auto 0001 so the auto worked..
and now see our folder incoming.. see the folder was renamed..
and step wo to Save_Mets
and then go to s and see our mets file is in the incoming/auto bottom level folder,
it was added to incoming folder.
and it goes through for another item.
mvs: so now because of our process
we now have these new resource packages that were just touched by our new mdoudle
on the now it will run through again
on latest version I just moved it into the processing folder and it avoids this wait
but now using fs explorer I can just drag them into the processing -
there is no wait on them.. nice..
so now it will run again..
and every time it looks at a folder it runs the package,
and it processed them and loaded them..
good.

if as source code comes in like our iUSD,
it automatically adds it,
so now there is a new aggregation there,
well reset cache first
and go to gocllectiosn, agg mgmt,
and see iUSD is now there, with comment added aututomaticaly,
and H and N for not enabled and not shown, but added as Institution,
as it was in the source code..
but it did not take our institution name, so a bug to fix.
so now we can see our item..
and now see our citation view shows our basic md that we set in our builder module
source institution u of sobek digital tita china report for..
resource id china report for the year.
item primary key:10895 and group priamry key 09146..
and we can create our new other one...  like build a log file..
--
now adding class eternalllogbuilderwork,
and now we have file externallylogbuilderwork.cs
and extend abstractSubmissionPackage Module
and it has a diff signature
and again we just have to use DowWork and accept argument
Incoming_Digital_Resoruce Resource arg, and it has all the item metadata..
so the incoming_digital_resources.cs base class shows all your methods, members,
and it shows actionable bullder source folder,
with folder it came from and all the metadata in another element
and various helper methods, and love mets and save to databse,
a lot of helper functions callable by the modules, etc.
-
so thats whet we get passed into it
now adding string log_file=...
now how to find where the application is running.. google for application startup c% fonsole
see a link.. so shows itis.. no. another link
how can I get the app used syste.reflexction.assembly.getexcuting sassembly90.Codebase

and put in prefix Path.GetdirectoryName(
so using that system.refl as an argument for that
and add after codebase.replace(file://",""
and now... composing a log file name...that's all.

--and set log_file_name =exetrnal_logtxt"
and add code lines..

StreamWriter writer = new Stramwriter(log_fiileName);, wrtier.WriteLIne((Resoruce.bibid ..+ : _ resource.vid _ hand at _ datenow...
and line writer.FLush; writer.close;
and say using(streamwriter in the code
and add append()
and boolean we set as return vaalue (default is returning voide fro mDoWork..

also adding a try catch on there.

when fired this will build into the sobek builder log table
and so we pass the bibvid and mets type sting(if a delete or not)
and the biblog it we dont really have implementd in the guil
and a log is first entered wrong on this bibvidna da
the builderlogid is relaying submsgs for this item processing
so in future we one row for this item in builder log
and will click to see all submessages per item.
-
now regiser it with the databse
now it is on the level of processing items, not on folder level
so select * from sobekcm bulder module se (or module set)
and it looks like the moduleset 4 here for incoming item processing
is what we need for module set id 3
now we see all modules in that set in sobeckcm builder module table
and we have about 30 or so..
so now we choose where i this process do we want it to run..
we could do it here after it reloads the mets...
or now lets just add it to the very beginning,
so we had lowes value of 1, so now we add row with value 0.-
--

so now adding insert into bulder module a row for this
and mvs said we are lucky here to not be doing multithreading
but here would be a perfect place to add member public static object logfile_lock;
and that would be static shared by all
and before using you add stmt lock(lgofile_lock)
and by default it unlocks at end of this clause or block started by lock(logfile_lock)
so another thread would have to stop when it hits this if the lock is in place.
nice feature of vs c#
and now kobject name.. in our insert..
and namespace id lib..library modulesitems.class...
and now we can do our insert and make it fire all..
he clicked on the tray ssms symbol. maybe like an execute?
and now  we select  ..
and update sobeckcmitem set addtionalworkneeded  true
where itemid =00xx,  whattever the item id was..
and now execute and put in our brakpoint in our externally..builder..lock.cs..

oops, the replace no now put it after codeBase.
not just after codebase.
ok oops need to put in Path.Combine(lgo_file_directory,"external_lgotxt");..

now rerun the builder and look in system admin items builder status tab builder logs
and see top 2 lines externally logging work item is now there.. nice.
--
so we just create two builder modules, but we can and should make these into
plugins
and one thing we want to do, about the plugins
is make them have a basic installer function,
so to say to enable run this piece of code or sql script..
so when thy hitenale..
so in builder model but in comment
you can enable enable module plugin,
and you must run this stmt to modfiy tables now,
but in 5.0 it will be provided,
so our code should have logic to check
if the builder module is already in the table
and then not try to add it, as we did manually here.
mvs and now what assumptios can you make..
is it really mdoule set 3?
to verify you might want to do a search of the code
and see which uses the enumeration that is actually integer 3 --
=
so think about what you want to write
and you could also do preprocess or post process module as well...

t1204:
see mvs is pushing this out to github as a new project or solution
that we can review
he is now adding a class library  and callig itadd
adding to his new solutionexternally lgobuilderwork.cs
and extecustomnonbibfolders.cs
and so we must also do the insert statements to get it to work for us.
and we will also have to at least add the sobekcm core dll ,
or other sif want to do more...
-
and also have to include the resource object
and its sll sobekcm resource object.dll
and sobekcm tools.dll this is a bit of guess work or research
and here.. since we save directly to the db
we need the dbagnostic db and resource layer db objects dll too
-
sobekcm resoruc database.dll
and another? above..
and now he adds this to github... but no connection just now..
and now he is adding some sql
declare @moduleset id int;
set @modulesetid - coalessce(select top  1 modulesetid from soekcm_builder_inconginf foldrs ;

insert into sobekcm_builder_Moduel(modulesetid.. etc fom before
values9@modulesetid)
and now ...more sql to do the inserts for the builder modules..
he joins in soekcmmoduleset types tableto get typeid for FOLD ..
and he chanes the namspaces to include CodeCamp2017and since this is a plugin,
we have a real value 'codeCamplpgulderplguin'
as sthe assembly value now istead of NULL..
because now he is also wrapping this up as a plugin.
now he chnss the externallylog..cs file naemspace to CodeCcamp2017..

now he has a project code-camp-builder-modules vs a project for his plugin
and he copies from his webapp plugin folder to..
and renames his config file to condemamep
and changes in codecampbulder, config the extensioncode ane name attributes
and changes the his config description tag and author tag for himself and changes assembly to . id to odeacam pulder modue
and then in assembly take changes name and id for code camp values..
-- t1221
next topic will be:  builder plubins
and now he new repo sobekcm-plugin-builder-demo-modules owned by SobekCM on github.
-
recap topic: creating item viewer

As of now we have done with creating a new item viewer
many reasons to do so, you may want a slight variable to a current item viewer,
and a bit more complicated than some other things.
so we create 2 classes often in same file for your item viewer
and see existing sobekcm library item viewers,
and 2 classes in each file include the prototyper and the viewer
that relationship is ineresting
So, under sobeckitemvier/viewers see cs files,
and see downloads_itemViewer.cs has 2 classes within it, the prototyper and
the viewer

and that is the trend for every single one of these
and the prototype is the factor
and there are itemviewer protytpes it is what links to the item viewer
and also has basic info
and when additional resource is loaded only a couple of strings come in
and just a couple of strings and the ui the web will seek those strings
and look for a matching string.
and it will seek that string
and it links types to items and links the items to the possible viewer types
and the engine downloads that in the item dbase
and has tinvofo is passed to the webs
so in that list of viewers is the acme viewer
and so it says i got this object from the engine
and i will look at each of the viewers
an see which one is valid
and it tries each item viewer prototyper..
ad the first time it shows it, it sees the item viewer prototyper,
and it is sort of a singleton class..
there is only one prototyper for each viewer type
and it will pass an item to it and ask the viewer prototyper
if it should use this.
and it uses Include_Viewer() call,
and so each  item gomes
and is it pdf, then it calls include_viewer for
the prototyper and gives the pdf viewer the chance to see the object
and see whether it has ANY pdf in it... and say yes or no,
It would be useful for this item, or part of it, a quick loop
and if not to be included, it is removed form the web display for the item
so that happens the first time it gets the item from the engine
and if you looked at that object in the web you would see many fewer viewers
and the next q is whether the user has access (a normal user or a manager,
so it has method Has_access that can tell whether the user can use this viewer.
and it takes the user_object - so here security can be implemented for diff viewers.
so assume the user has access and then the next method to call is
dd_Menu_items(_ that lists itself on the menu of viewers
and so in db where we can set labels for each view, it adds to the menu item..
the method returns void, but one of the arguments
is an 'out' list of menu items that is gettig build,
so not returned by the method,
because could hae multiple menu item where it puts itself on 2 places on the menu
so this is all called before they click on the view,
it provides the menu options apt for that item
so the user has not clicked on a viewer yet

and finally we have/is itemViewer Create_Viewer
that is only called when they click on the tab for the view
and for the item that the viewer is created and
now we see the viewer object it implements itemviewer

and so now some implemented classes
and many itemviewers do not directly implement itemViewer
(pagination item viewer and nopagination item viewr are examples
that share other common traits),
so often the itemviewr does not directly extend itemviewer,
but rather abstractPaginationItemviewr or.. paginationItemviewer
so that answers a lot of questions for it.
and it asks are you paged or not,
and so the viewer just passes down to say I have only 1 page etc or no pages,
so next and last buttons are automatically presented
on page quantity and number of current page
and so have method write_with_html_head to writeie within the head
and method Add-viwerspeci-oboyd-attriutes can write into the body tab
and method write-leve-navemenu-section
and method write_main_vieweer_section..
these are the main things a viewer would do...
rb: so if has access is false .. the viewer is not presented as a menu option..
-
NEXT TOPIC, VG: CREATING a NEW item viewer
next vg..
creating a new item viewer
1 create a new item viewer prototypyer and 2 a new item viewers

NEXT TOPIC VG: Create config info

and now vg create config info
1 start by adding a config file in the conf user suboflder
an use sobekcm_item_viewers.config as source
so put it under config/user, move it.

so the config file does not ref the item viewer, only the item viewer
prototyper..
but that just tells the website it exists
but we must add it to the database..
so when see systemwide settings it shows a merge of the d dbase and config file
so add to sobekcem item viewer types table
and viewertype should match the code from the config file..
and that link shows how they are combined..
and now we look at systemwide settings for that,
and see the table of viewers..
so see dataset codeob, reports and viewdata,
rows appears be they are in the in the sobekcm item viewer types table,
but not in the config file..

so class here says not implemented..
mvs - the key in this table is the viewertype is
the code in the db is linked into an item viewer prototyper
and the row if it has a class, shows the class does appear
and the viewercode say for embedded video it is evideo,
and it tells when the url has the evideo code in it,
it is asking specifically for the this viewer.

mvs: so the config file is in sobeckcm config default
sobekcm_item_viewers.config (but we move ours to default)
So the item viewer list is important here..
so the viewer type attribute should match..
the type name in the dbase maybe and the viewercode attrib
is the url segment name,
and you have assembly and class and whether enabled or not..
so we are serious about always adding for only very few viewers,
like the directory viewer, that is one of a few that is always added...
not even the citation viewer is always added
but/and it (the directory viewer) is always added on the webinterface side,
and the d base says I am always going to add the directory..
-
and two types of order, menu order and order
and it is defined in the db
and view order, it only matters what is the lowest numbered view,
it is the first view it would show if viewed to it,
so ead viewer is 4 and 5
and embedded vierwer is 7, and a lowest numbe..
so if you always want citation view always displayed if no 'citation'segment
in the ul, it uses the lowest number in ie order the one to show sans 'citation'
in the url.
-
and the default view again just means if you add a new item to the
db, that item gets these views added no matter where it came from..
-t1502
so we add to db by adding to sobekcm-item_viewer types table
and the TYPE column should match from the config file
and the last thing is to link items to it

and you can do it programmatically to add to the sobekcmoitem_veier table
to go to the behavior screen and manually add per item the viewr as an opton

now on soebekrepostiry.org/help/tools he added the sanborn item viewr just a few minutes ago
so now we look at it
so when looking at the sanborn maps,
if you look at the page images you will see a visual index on some items,
nice uf007451/00004 try that
and you come and click to 4 and it takes you to that page.
we will rebuild that here
so page images has a 4 opton
so if go into the directory see page folder sectionhas a gif file and a.htm file
which is a simple html map with oshapes with poly shape with coords..
and href.. review thisfile
- and it requires at last a give to displaytself,
so the idwr prototype will look for a gif file.
so on the help tools page there is a link to this git repo.
now seeing sanborn item_viewer_prototyper.cs with both objects in this one file
just a habit to keep both in same file,but somehwat handy
so it sts the ViewerTye ad ViwerCode just to be redundant.
and we see method includViewer...
so a one liner seeks. if it exists specifically the filename in tototl that
ends in gif.  -that is the check.
And with sanborn items have this custom combo of a gif and htm file of
this format, and this viewer works precisely for such items..
and other functions are here... eg to support concept that some digital
items are or might be single use but not many in the world
and so Has_Access looks for ip restrictions... but no need for AM4IR.
and so ip restricted indicates
-and pass in the current item current user, current request to the
method add_mey_items... this is simple.
-we use the current request to figure the url to point to the particular
viewer of this item..
mvs here we have an index.. and with page description can have 3 levels so
the index is the same or second level.. so this is a way to bring
out a menu and have option to have a thir tier of menus to go down and over,
so description shows standard view, marc view and metadata and usage
statistics... for the description viewer and so for the page images you have
the dd of these 2 levels.
but line 73 has 2 null args so that is why no dd menu for 'index'

so that the url and this adds it to the manu
and then create viewer method.
now they want to look at the item and return the Sanborn_ItemVier
constructor, so that is the bridge to go from prototype to the iviewer,
So see here line 96 this extends abstractNoPaginationItemViwer (which does implement that interface)
so the itemviewr prototype is hanging around in memory and used over and
over and over, sitting in memory as a singleton... so saves time..
and this is faster, but now the item viewer is only created for the request
that is utilizing it, and a different item viewr is cretd for each request
coming in for that type..
So now sanbornitem viewer can have private readonly string htmlFile and gifFile,
in THIS object can have private data and check the particular gif file
if it exists, as the itemrviewr itself exists independently with it
contructor argument data.
Now we write some stuff  remember the four things that implement
write_( methods 3 of them and Add_viewerSpecific_Body_Attriubutes
AND add main viewer section? is last method rarely used..
add mainviewer section must be ther, but usu does nothing.
and write main viewer section only writes in that section..
it just generates the html...a small amount of code..
from lines 129 for a few lines after that..
and see the htm, and they have to repalce the <%ITEM_LINK%> here too,
a simple replace, and here they stick a j at the end of it...
and the j at the end means it is pointing to jpeg page say 3..
it repalces 'od links' the hrefs in the map as we do not use that mode anymore.
-t1520
- and this is a public viewer.. it is really simple
--
and we did the itme prototyper and the item viewer and now we look at the
config file setup.
Now for the config file.. see sanborn itemveiwer.config file ...
some info is dispalyed and of course the assembly id with id and name..
And next portion of the config is writerviewers section
and using clearall= false' is an old habit of Marks to make sure it
does not clear,but defaults to false anyway so not neede
and itemviewer type is in db and viewercode also matches dbcode or maybe
can be a display value and assembly again is sanbornViewerDll
so that is really simple, the config file... is small, so we did the config
and now we do next hingk:
add it to sobek item viewers table, and the github has an installe script
for that as well.. to insert into our sobekcmtables..
and values sanborn, 1, 0 , 11  - so 1 means it overrides all, and
0 is x and eleven, order is 11...i
and menu order slides the menu option display to the right as it gets bigger.
-
and the last step is link items to new viewer...
one way is through sql and another is going through the edit behaviors screen.
So now mark looks at the sql insertion script...
sp we can add this viewer to ufdc, eh sanborn viewer and add it to the sanborn collectio items
and DO tell MVS, as he wants to see it..
- so that is it..
a lot of stuff, as we create two objectsand have to add it to the db..
and it works..
t1532
-
t1420
and mvs is considering dropping the cache of all items in your digital library-- maybe to save memory.. upon startup.
--
t1435 now on to the item viewer--soon.

TODO: see - what did I add on the server side to protobuf... added an index to some list of items that is serialized... maybe I di not need itany more, as I think I have started to use Session data since then for the streaming image pager viewer.

--now to do the bulk portion -- the bulk changes --

mvs has no slides, but he does have docs fo rit on sobek repositry.orgy
see under dtechnical/developers/createmets and editing exisitng mets...
or .../editing existing mets..

so see that editmets...
see creating a nenw visual studio solution... setion
and do a console app.. as with plguin solutions, we shoul swith to ..net framewrok 4.5 or can also reference the dlls
and now you only need 2 libbraryres, sobecm ore and sobek cmresrouce object.. th only sobek dlls
and anslo need proobuf0net and 2 other dlls
and do not need engein agnostic alayer dbaccess unless save to the database
so this is like editng hte mets in place and setting the addl wrok to true, is same as if you just drop the mets in indboudn folder..
but do not want ot make changes to mets and not set the addl mets flag.. so if you do notit would not go into solr...
-
so create new project demo blukk update sonsole stype app
and in pgram.cs
and mvs tenes to ull out mets an save them and put them in the builder..
so this si devautl console app in clas Program
and static voie Main, nto exciting
and so start this.. and see project DemoBulkUpdate and in file system tnow as we created the project, and crate subdir DLLS sibling to emoPublUpdate folder under vs/projects/
and pull over JIL Protobyf0net from SobekCM...dlls
 and zoom.net and sboeckm_core and sobecm resource object and now to solutiosn add exisitng projets first of demobulk udpate, sobekcm core... and addexting proje tof sobek cm resource obejct and ins oution exploroter edemobulk update, hit references to add, but trye a compile to see what is missing. oops we need sobekcm tools.. and so bwe bring them over.. and add exxiting projec tosbjekcm_tools , and this will lwet us step through..
and try rebuild again..
Engiene AgnsotlicLayerDb access could nto ve found..'hmm,maybe remove sobekcm core.. and ok, that helps
so we need sobecm_tools NOT _Core and now see sobekcsm0resoruc )bobject ahs references with the soozmm.ne
and these also expect to see folder DLLs that is sibling to dmeobulkuptdate , sobekcmtools, sobekcm_x..
so nwo vs is happy with the location of zooment sorlnet protobuf-net
and so we have added the projects thand the referneces
and we need to cick references udner demobulkudpate and now add reff to sobekcmr srouce object and sobekcm tools nowl also listed under thedmeobulkudpate secio of solutio explorer, and the c$ nodes are bloew for the actual soruce
and now in the Main() method can add thinkgs like..
Sobek_Itm newItem - Sobek.. no add using sobkCm_tiem... Rad_Mets("")
and add to program member private static bool process_exiting_tiem(stirng metsfile)
and oen lien sobkcm_tiem newitem - sobemkcmiteim.readMets(Metsfile):
an that loads and reads into our sobekcm item.. then must look around sobkcmitiem hinsolutione explroer, use yoru intellicense and look around and find newitem.bib_ifno.Mian_title.clearn;
newibiembibinfoommaintiteltitel=
,u ewest greatest titel";
so thsi is an eg of bibliograb changes
and can add asection.. add antutro if nonexits
if newiteimbibnfinonaems-count -- =
then newitem.bibn_info.add (and see al lthe intellisene coices) so add_named_entity(""see 4 overlads hin teltillisend, so if give w args, 'mark sullivan", phtoographer", that works
and then have newitem bibinfo .addnote("Digitied yby IMLS gratn fiudnign");
so add biblio changes there..
 now isseu how to figure out wher things belwo ng esides doing searhces
anslook in sobekcm web the citation elemetns that appear in the etemplats, and see how the templats handles this field and infrer where theybelong..
or if want to add vracore... go to fiel eexplorer sobeckm library/ciation/elements/impelmetned and see VRA(.cs files and see vra_material_elelemnt.cs and at bottom is wher it adds it. and this iactually a md module and so take this uy.. some code to add a enw vra core material.. it is amd module we have to add and see glovalvar with lightbulk icon tool .. and call is item..getmetadatamodule(Global.vracore_METADATA_Moduel KEY, ) as next
and coying from vra _naerial_elemetncs.. some  lines..
and now do VraInfo.add_Mateiral("Stone","medium"

so now we hae read the tiem, are making enw changes, adding biblio data, and must search around and find out wehre the data is held and copy paste fromother code
and now add section find the new desitination folder"
and set it to builder/incoming for this example..and so create dir if not exists
ands comemtn si save the mts there
and nweItem.soruc_diretory - desitnaion foler
and newItem.Save_ETS();
and that is it, so toing through it will hae read the mets file and nwo we eidt the item and make changes and create dst dir if not her
and save it
and see technical develoeros/editmets
sesee section Using Default MEtadata COnfiguration
so now NEED these two lines to set dfault values and finalize
and in main progrma nwo put those two lines and then cll your method
and next i main oepn file with list of bib/vids to perform work on, and now read the items and creaete bmets filenamesand then in a while do console.riteline(lie) as  log and writ done.
and thendo consolreeadKey(), and it reads tth text file ..and now after the console writelie
we write splitter = line .split )\t",toCharArray
and bibid=splitter[o]and then create string fo rmets file naem.. and create the mets file naem.
-
thencall our process: process_exitign_item(mets_fiile):
and that's it..
o thi somehow fiture outmets file...
so now change to
mets_Ffile - SObekCM_Item.. diretoryform Bib_Vid((see base next),bibid,vid); and base is !"d:\webroot\contet\,
and so this works,
the items edited did get created..
but must go find all the mets/mods tags, entitties that can be created..scanning the source code and or templates in sobekcm source code for example
and you would probably also set the addl work needed flag if you call SAVE_METS itself...(maybe because safe mets puts it in the resources foler an the builder still should go run SOLR indexing an other stuff?)
so we would add a few more things to this to set the addl work needed flag,
or do what gets done when it is set...
so he creates or updats project demobulkupdate
and we ended up not using the core, SObekCM_Core, so delete from fs
folder..but will need more.. from full sobek webapp we need the engine
agnositclayerdbacces and sobeckcm resource datbase, so copied those
into fs siblings to DLLs and others in this VS demobulkupdate project file system space using windows file explorer
so we will set the db addl work needed flag here.
and now just need newItem.Save_METS() at bottom of our method
so now add existing - to project the resorue database that we copied via windows explorer
so here we are going directly to save the files and bypass the builder it seems.
and in main(), we also need to set the db connection sting as third line,
or first under the second Resource ObjectSettigns.MetdataConfig.Finalize_meta...
line -- sobekcm_item_Database.connection_String = "" whatever.
and after item.save-mets
have a-sobekcm_itemDatabase.update_addtional_work_needed_flag(), b-(ItemID, true)
but need to lookup the item id before this..
and so can call Get_ItemID(newitem.bibID, newiteim.VIT).. to get int itemid..

so thats how you would do it if you were doing it yourself.. that is
if NOT copying a file to the incoming inbound folder, but you did
do a save_mets, but you neded now to set the addl work neede flag
yourself to TELL the builder the mets changed so I guess it can call
SOLR or other stuff or reveiw..
ss the mets..

so dto use default md config.. you would make a cll to the engine and ask
for the md config forr yoursintance and you would nedd puisn for
your med, and if you something unique wtih your med you need to pull it
in at beginning here.. maye per ...
??? but not terribly complicated code.
so we have not actually called any api

now we add the core library to our demobuuildupdate.sh project
-end today
 demobulupdat
and add a score project and add access and get sobejcm_cor we addand how we can put at first linee of Main()
sobekCM.Core.Microsservicesclient??.. lookingfof ri
now.. now lets add the sobekcm engine library and to exiting project..
-
t1638 mvs note: if a config file in a users diretory, it can be used to just augment what is in default config file of same name... and if it happens to redefine a viewer, the users viewer definition will override it. So the last write would win.
Optionally in the user config file can have a tag <ClearAll x = true> that would clear the default viewers if any prsent in the default config file.
------------------------------

end 20170425 t1732
-end today

20170426 wednesday code camp start
t0820
mvs - item viewer was changed and args for results viewer is different
for rb because add menu itms used lwoercase i..

mvs did put out new sobekcm version this morning, to go out to github release
this weekend ...
with minor change to argument object passed or used wrt result viewers.
--
today from 830 to 11am we customize the results display through plugins
and 11-1230 we do ' adding new custom metadata'
then camp closing at 12:30..
good..
20160426t0825---
OK, here is our day's schedule, and we look at results display
through plguins... pull this down.. to long to show how they work..
and some pretty short ones here.
and then we do custom metadata

and then examples of plugins and what to do with them.. but mvs
is making a helper..-- and we can go for lunch
--so now for results display..
and now he is pulling newest plugin portion of code
and see the webapp

solution sobeckm_library is the main object then results viwers
and the new file he has is Custom_Thumbnail _ResultsViewer.cs
And there is an iface for the results veiwer.. hence the lowercase i prefix
in the var name.
and these are specific to current requests..
so the way we do results is there are two objects, one is ResultsStats
that do not change dep on page you are on, and the other is PagedResults
and so year the iSearch_Title_Result is list of 20 results to show

and stats have stat hits and the facets.. that appear on the left
as you page through results they should not change
and we pull up the facets in a cache for 5 minutes only,
the hardest part to get results to ..
and may be minor changes as we go to solr but will not change too much
and the facets are much quicker in solr
and these two objects combine as you search/browse
and object RequestSpecificValues i was alwasys aka the RequestCache,
a concept we created in sobek, not  system.web thing..
and we can look at that.. we started using this.. to hold current
mode, paged_results, html skin, etc.. see its definition..
and back to resutls viewer in resultsviewer.css main file source file
and one method is add_html that ads html to a placeholder on the
results screen, and that is likely to change
bec.. so we add to a placeholder instead of writing directly to a
response string, and we udtilize that now onlyon the tree views
with items for multiple items, but it does not work well, and it
complains when you go back and sys cannot
reshow page cannot pull down ldat
and we will switch the approach awasy from placeholders to direct
string writing in repsonse string
and so it just .. now, makes a literal
and later instead of adding a literal to a placelhodelr,
it will just be a responseStream writline,
We are getting rid of placeholders, but it makes it complex to
add complex asp.net controls into it, but still probably worthwhile to ditch
the placeholder approach.
So all they results viewers do is Add_Html right there -- see code
And there are some other objects available in this code/viewers code, no bigggies
and so the abstract class has stuff to help paging through the results
and when all done...
well thumbnail results viewer is a good base
see thumbnail-results viewer deps on base and then
implements the iface and its only method is just add_html
and so you make sure there are actual results before you do much
And we just look through results here and we do not worry about facets here,
and just fill out main part of results screen.
-so see.. we only fill the results the 20 items
and the results html subrwriter fills the facets on left and top part,
and thumbnail viewer is simple table.
-20160426t0835 rb has a fix to facets line breaks issue,
see digital.lib.usf.edu digital.lib.usf.edu/cape-canaveral-3d
and browse collection and see..
the the fourth row third column breaks the word etfechor? or delector? hard to see..
mvs will look at it

TOPIC: Thumbnail results viewer
so back to thumbnail resultsviwer.
and utlimately you loop through all results, and see iSearch_TitleResult,
is an interface, and the reason is,
the thumbnail view only shows one thumbnail per title..
and so within the title result you have items..
and your title result has a list of items underneath it and you
can get .. and you use that to build a thumbnail link..
and he describes the links in the thumbnail,
and see firstitemResult.MainThumbnail is one data member with
items-specific info... ok
So the hidden stuff in the code he says, it is the region is the
hover-over google tip
he calls a region to be hidden
And in there you have opac-number and you use md labels and loop
through all the md
rb: i thought the body of results was from a query stored in the database..
rb: wasn't the body that shows in uin the results a query..
mvs yes see resultsstat.metadata_labels.count that is a list of the md labels,
from the db?
Because when you do the search it returns results for the SQL that is in
that collection.
So it is stored here line 222 for in... resultstats.metadata_labels.count
Now we see the result item see core results/ (in sox), get foreach_item_result.cs
or searchitemResults...?
wait.. now see .. ok see there around line 92
now... see under realtitle? resultsItemInfo.s.. no
see results titelinfo.cs..? looking
see line 41 resulttiele_Descritpive term now

now back to search_title_result.cs
line 49 is just a string metadata_display_values, but we do not know what we
will get back from a sql search
(mvs uses sql server 2016)
and it runs dynamic search based on sql in the database for an aggertation,
column browse_results_disply_sql is the field in sobekcm-item_aggergation table

And see for every aggregation is this chunk of sql.. so that is what
runs to return the md related to the titles per item - a handy field
so the itemtable is the table with the items returns in the search..

so see one..  it is a select
so we figure out what we want to show when constructing this sql
And we .. you can change these, this is the default one,
and see segment [publisher.display] as publisher
(note 'as publisher' is missing now.
So you can put in the 'as x' to show
what the label displayed as a label in the output.
So sql says here in this sql you define what elements are returned and what
the labels are.. so for source institution it shows source space
institution so underbars are deleted too before display labels are shown
mvs we should just trim it at the dod to fix these, he may change that..
So that is how to determine which fields are returned eg like accession number
(We are looking at the default browse_results sql in a tab of the SSMS tool)
Here is what you add.. and what i

For am4ir: user defined columns  maybe good to keep manuscript post embargo start date?

And so the metdata basic search table has every md value (from the
md mets resoure files) that you may be looking for..?

So see all the metadata_basic_search column names that correspond to basic metadata..
and many are user defined, so you can grab and create your own
empty fields they are userdefined01 nvarhchar(max)

and see the mapping table to see what is mapped to each of those columns,
so see table sobkecm_metadata_types table..
and so when you save data to db that you want searchable you pass in pairs..
So when it finds a value that you give it that it can't locate,
So say we are saving temporaral year and it will find..
So if it seeks EAD name.. and it the display term is associate
with userdefined columns..

So going back, if we wanted to show EAD NAME in search results
then in our browser display we would say 's.UserDefined02 as EAD_Name'
and there is an all aggregation..

All the searching portion is per item la
mvs - and you can handle this here.. these ARE per item values, and
you would not touch the md types table, but we would write custom md
saving values to the db and next time you see in the db.. as manuscript
and when you save something it goes in this column..
-so when you do a search or browse you would get that is ...
so you would normally just edit the top of the sample default browse results sql,
usually not to bottom  parts, the from or where clause parts of a
browse_results_diplay sql..
--
but no guid iface..
--
so that is where it gets the values for the display the metadata display values
and so all the results viewers are  a bit different.

and you have the table, brief, thumbnail results, the three required and others..
like we see in this list..of cs files under the SOX object resultsviewers

And they all act very similar, one method that fills up central part
and NOW (as of 2 weeks ago in preparation - in official release soon)
we have a factory that we use as of 2 weeks ago in new code, that
creates the results viewer
so now under sox sobekcm_library under html, we have html subwriters,
and for each main mode there is  an html subwriter that handles paging
through results and factets, used borw bowring
so paged results subrwriter is asked to gen results viewer from the factory..
and the results mode is used by reuslts factory to create your results viewer
and it will look similar to these (see some new code.cx for the factory?)
in that we request things like class and assembly, switch (config.Class)..
so see file resultsviewer_factory.cs
and it returns well established ones, so not one of the std ones.
so it was not a std one, so we can figure out from the switche cases,
see lines 78 70 and it gets the type and returns, casts it to the results viewer
so it looks at current assembly and creates the class
. and this morning he added traderouts .. see lines 93 or so
and finally if an assembly was indicated see lines 108
assembly dllAssembley=null
and we go on to build path and load the assembly.and it builds
the type and gets the return object the same way: using activator.createinstance
and it assigns values again and returns
so the factory is pretty simple as well.
So he does not want to use reflection all lthe time so we have cases..
so we load the assembly.
And this morning he created custom thumbnail results viewer, and
similar to old results viewer
except line 72 fie custom thumbnails results viewer,
we see if coll -- 2 so now we have displayed for us 2 columns of thumbnails
instead of 4
so he created this viwer, and loaded the code and modified in a
few places and it is just haning out here
and we can go into the config user folder,
so it is not yet a pluin so do not yet need exension info,
so i have tha I a unloading this or loading this viewrr
line 18 of file sobekcm,results viewers.config
Now ac to see old thumbnail viewer in file sobekcm.result..viewers.conf in
the default area
but now look at our new one.. line 18 because it is same TYPE THUMBNAIL
it will override the existing one.
and our label we did change
this is in the user directory for this when we create our new config file
so it will overide the default
and so the label returns on menu and description is what appear when you hover over...
so now we can just run it...
And will sy viewer items, and see now menu tab says THUMBIES,
and click it nad see the two thumbnails wide viewer..
-curently now t a reat way.. to?
if want to get rid of thumbnails
one incompleted change will be complete with rollout
is every agg has a config file and with that config file it has info
about which file is atached to that aggregation..
so we will pull the item out of the db..?
we do have tables for that, see latest script.
it will add to each table, and each will have lines to resutls views..
and it will be fixed..
and so now which result views are linked to each aggregation will be in
the db.. for a good reason I forgot..
So before if you added a new viewer you would have had to add it to
each config file, but now you can just do it in the db..
But if you replace one in total with TYPE you need to not re-state
aggregation restuls views.. as you will override an extant viwer
type that way, simple.
and he will probably not commit this to github.. ?
but he did commit a new  custom thunbmail..
and you will see it under config/samples is a config file for it
(as gitignore does not take users folder)
so we can just copy it from sample folder and paste to users folder..

--so i would email to mvs a javascript for elsevier to make it publicly available, as that jscript is not in github (some ufdc images are like that too.)
and we can come up with an arbitrary versioning.. and we can ..
--
So I can email to mvs the js for the elsevier CORS stuff..
and he would put it up, our js for am4ir/elsevier
--now the cdn is fast as it can support parallel dl of the requests,
and our webbsckin does reference the cdn. So if it needs 12 js files
it can dl 6 from one cdn node and 6 from another in parallel to speed
up the downloading.

and we just use cloud slayer, a free version as well, we can jsut maek awebsdite, they have one cdn.soekrespositry nd register wwth cloud plaeyr or cloudflare, and they come to our server and scrape eery so often..
 it is free..
- that is free, and good.
-
so do not need to change bottom part of the aggreg. the browse ql and you can add to from a setting table and to a left outer join to the settings table, and you could pull one row from the tiem table i n this query.. thsi browse sql on the screen.
-so maybe we can look at another way. -
it is transient environmental data, or add a column to item behaviors, .. or you can do it as spatial kml..
maybe mvs will play around with it slightly..
and so he will thnk of alt ideas to not coopt spatial kml field..
-for later, but we can use for now...
-- rb - So when we start doing thigns we do it in our branch...
-idea builder module put in hash value per md item and check it..
-idea builder module check validity of md and report more detailed error in failures error messages/warnings (unknown md tag - skipped-ignored)
-check out the bibid assignemer they now use for accesssion number in their builder module,maybe can add LS... or just go ahead with our/UF own server to feed the builder, a governor.
a dietician.
-

-

20160426t1020 creating
now topic is creating .. no adding custom metadata fields..
discussion
so a few steps
1 - mets section reader/writer
2 metadata module
3 breif item mapper
4 citation dispaly
5 resutl display
6 template elemetns
7 configuration changes
md module sores data in memory
brief item mapper maps beween mets and brief ietem mapper - it is also in enginthlike mets section, and its output is sent to the web
and citation dispaly shows it wil display
and resutls display  is antoehr set of md
and template elemetns are online to let them edit the md
and clast config changes that go along with all of that

now met sectionreadder/writer
1 usu it is admdSec rob biliogrphic or amdsec for admin section, and it can tag into multiple levels, at top level to desrvie overall, ro division level to individ divsiions or at lapage level stoo

one eg of dmdsec at page level is how we did aerials as coorinate are at individ page leel
and it writes intot soekcmmets file and reads from it
and thrids should use a schema, existing if possible - so can google around for a scheam that will be i nthe et file, and seek as cheam or crete one so builder or it cn validate for it
and lst the briddge x moves dat from met file into cusotm md module in the sobekcm item object - ahd tha is red from the file into emory
and so eg fo rdmd ection:arader/writer
book includedmdsec, read0)dmeec and write-dmdec methods an scheam pys is shwer you delcalrre what cheas shoudl b used
and incldue_dmsec -sayins looking at arg sobekcm_item should i write any dat inot the mets file, and it will say no if no data
and boold read_dmesec reads with xmlrader from the sobekcmitm
and a rite_dmsec ues textwrtier to write from arg of sobekcm_item
so fro mconfiguration you hwo telit how it tagged to certain dmd sec in the mets
nad it stells it when to send this dndsec to reder writer
nwo metadta modeul - is read from soekcm
tje reader writer creeats the bokecmdm ...
so read dmdsec if it finds good data, it assures the md module is asttached to the tiem at the apt loc
and it
md module cretes and populates .
and everyingin in the imd iface there isa strnig module name
see lsit <keyvalueparis<string,string?? metdata_werh terms, used wehn sacing othe dbas,e like tiel creater createor cretorname
so itis stii.. or keyvalue paris of term and value apris
and they can be sored in solr tha way or db that way, a way to pass out a flatned kv apri structure all data to be stored
or if your data ismroe comple,and you cannot flatien it well,and 2 other methdos we can use thatare rarelyused, only for geographic stuff now
methods retireve additlininforform datab ans save addl info to databae()
so that is yoru own part
so you have your own pys of course, so if make own poscatcard dat.. and to extenett hi iface you must include thisl keyvalue par
so now the suttff is read into the ite in the md module and we do not nec pass it betweeen ite and weba
and what we pass in the breifiteiminfo object which also is a flattened sort of object
so it has name and about 10 or more pys
so you map it into brief item mapper whose goal is to show to user online,
so it flattens citation info almost into what you see on the display..
so md is pushed into creator diplay field, so author tag is lost
but it can be passed ch and forth and brief item maper has only 1 method to
implement: maptobriefitem(sobekcm_item, out to briefiteminfo)
START TOPIC CITATION DISPLAY
now citation display, and now we  are on citation display topic
now you can actualy search it bec if you saved it once.. all your custom md is
in the d, appears a new field linked to that collection, and will appear in
your advanced field down you can search, and it already has the search code,
and that is working now
but now you need to show the data to the user
and the citation display is mostly a config file chage, and optionally you
can create own custom citation section writers..
to change the way things appear in the citation on the scren, but our example
does not have this
and results display is repeat of what we looked at

TOPIC EXAMPLE USER DEFINED
so you need to update the browser_results-display sql column like user defined o1 and o2
and so nice here is you need not touch the db in this process
because first item db gets this list key-valeu pair metadta_search-items
it just grabs the next underlined column 01, etc
by default we iss a couple of columns in sobekcm keta data basic erh ble,
and if see in the md types table the first two columns are snagged
but/by something so you can see how it would behave
START TOPIC TEMPLATE ELEMENTS
now topic template elements - how to let people change the elts
now template elts,
you need to create elt objects for each new md field you created , about 9 here
so you need to extend the abstract_element class,
and when you eid tmd you see.. the control
and this does the writing and stores the data back to the sokekcm  item
so you can extend the abstract element or exiting implementation,
9 exist eg checkbox_element , multipletextbox,element,
and any of these can be made repeatable
or you can go back to abstract element class and implement somethng else
like richard b's doi lookup element
generally you create one of these for each new field you are adding..
so see also others like textrob comboxbox element sulike subject term
and subject authority good elt for that..

so until the helper class comes out, we use this
START TOPIC CONFIGURATION CHANGE
and finally we have configuration change topic
metadata config changes: regiser new mets section readier/weriter,
and add tho the deault writing profile
an brief item mapper
and other missed
and configuration change.
also citaiton change - add new citation section with new data and
regiwewt each new citattion element control so you can add it to template,
so must add to template file as well so it shows up to be edited.
-
so a good number of config changes.. so that's the bulk of all
the different stuff we have to do

START TOPIC STEP THROUGH RICHARDS POSTCARD EXAMPLE
now we step through richard's postcard example:
now in vs, and thi isa a plguin, see hsi pluin, see obje tpsotcard postcardcore_info.cs object
and see lines 41 or so some individula fields. down through line192or mroe...
rb was given speific guildelines.. and if it appears strange it ws guidance he was given
so we wanted compound subjet
and see line 197 module name is potcard core
line 204 puts in list of key value paris, and see line 208 the string that is saved in the db and it grabs nex user defined column and line 240 has nice structure with subject topic, perspective an subject name
and we hae a nice subject object ith 3 fields that we flatten to get into the db
so this is line 266 md module
and we can putt other stuf fin there see utitlieis fiel psotcrdcore_ogging.cs
and lie 274 .. if subject is interesting and wantto let user do a earchwhile they ar editing see lines 274 to save stuff to addl table in the dbase so can add nicer functioaity if you want
so now to file postcardcore_.. other last rhere files, mroe comples objects tha are par tof thsi
and now to ouroutlie, and see threader writer, and it implemltn sine 11 the ipackege_dmdse_eraderwriter
so it is not a placeholeronly, or it coule be idivision_dmdsec.. ro iage, but ipackage _dmdsec means top level of hierarchy
so line 15 - include dmdssec see it goes to ge the line 19 pulls out postcardinfo
and line 21 cehs null and says do not return a dmdsec fo rtis
and whithout this each odule with ddec would put empty emdsec tag apirs in yor file
an if it is there, is still may nto have tate.. so only at lines 35-36 does it return true
now see line 41 read_dmdSec perortion
we ar passed an xmlreader that is rding the xmets fil, and line 45 if already , ge the postcardInfo
and if not line 47 we create one
now in meets file we have seen point to show this reader rwriter needs to be fired up.. so we can assume there will be daa and can add it  write away..
so look at esat code for this or mods reader writer
lines 56 we do a do while and goloop through and look at each one.
and the bulk of wha we do is line 78 we taek the termnanme, read its value, and line 89 we add it into the module
and so see line 80 we maek sure it has  .. so this is our bridge from the file to the md module
and repition down . and lien 155 is mroe complex oboject with attributes andthings like that..
and here we look fo rattriutes.. but not much variety.. simple to write, but nontrivieal number of lines... thouhthe concepts ar trivial
and so line 290  the reader takes the whole dmd setion nd passes it to the reader.. at line 288 whiel (Input_XmlReder.Red90); it just hands it out as it goes
and we kipped schema topic,but see lines 295 if you have a schema locaiton.. and ine 306 shows the schema name space and if dmdsec is required..
so 309 allows mets package to not be overlaoded and to include only schemas that have data in this mets file
and line 337 is our write dmdsec
so ultimaely we write to a text stream,
so not a new otuptut-stram, wo so we are passed it as an arg.. and this just asdds the little section for
that dmd sec and the dwriter just goes onthe caller, so here we just write into a building stream
so you could build an xml document and have it go to string as an alter, but here, eg 377-378 just write
to str if have the data and that is it
That is what a reader writer does, reading into a sobekcm item or string to the mets file from a sobekcm item..
so .. that is it.
And much of this is preexitsting, not just for plugins..

But there is vra core mets section reader writer, and a vra md module, as not part of our core
our core is mods type data ind sobekcm type dt..
so the top 3? t of he topcks for adding custom metadta fields..
20160426t1050
so see sobeckcm_resource object, metada-modules/EAD in sox are the misc md modules..
and see rights md_info.cs is an admin setion, and we have a good nine examples
to look at and see mets sec readerwriters
et iDivision_dmdSec_ReaderWriter.cs and 20 or so thers..

-these are all examples of mets section md writers
and moving on to brief item mapeprs they are in sox in the engine the mappers
so all get mapped from sobekcm item to briefiem field not just custom md fields
and many examples here..
and so here are briefitem mapper objects
and you can create a new mapper called mynames that maps the name info differently,
so we can pick and choose them and they are all in configuration file
see languages_briefitemmapper.cs
and all that they have see map to briefitem method line 21
and so here arge original is mapped to new briefitem info..
and line 24 if languge we iterate through them.. you see a lot..
and of sio foreach we iterate through each language, and this has text but
others may have code and line 31 we try to figure out code from the text
so here we say if it is just a code.
line 34 we just add to the brief item language is the term and a language text is the value.
so back to the postcard_briefitemmapper in rb project
and see lines 33 is one case..
and so in his postcard itemmapepr
line 15 we get the item out
otherwise it is same as existing ones, and in lines 48+ we see..
emulate this one, this is how to do it.
so see also other_URL_BriefIemMapper.cs in web project
and here lien 27 we see New.Add_DecriptionOtherItem", mainEntry
and it also returns briefitem_Desc_termValue
and here you can assing several other fields if you want you can assign
in line 14 the value, and get urls, see briefeietndesctermvalue.cs
and ine 40 or so subterm
and line 52 searchterm - if you want it to be linkable to click wi a
citation../ now this one is a godoeg,
the creators name  you may want to the creator display mark
twain some years, but when they click it you may want them to
only search the name mark twain instead of the display value
so briefitem_dekTerm valeu.cs - brief item mapper could be more complex,
but need not be
and in this case line 27 in other_URL_Breif atiem mapper.cs we added a term.and line 31 woe could add thsi as will so in sobekcm item other display labe might beoriginaly ead, so map to subterm to retain that 'origianl ead' if youw ant
so it can be more omplex but need not be
so in psotcard hsi briefietm mapper..
so review what we covered
and we will cover itation display when configuration changes
so what is left is our template ellemtns - how you can enter it oneline
see under psotcare elemetn nobejct 9 or so cs
files
rb; amek sure your elt names ar unique, do not use 'forat' as he did, it shows ups elsewhere
mvs  - problby think about putting postardcore in front of all of them..
rb you  -it ishard to show or discove rif you are unique
mvs so put psostcardcore in front of all of hsoe clas names
mvs but it is unique intohetter ways, it has own namespace and on dlls, bu the application should nto trip up, wbut we as template authros may get confuse.
noew see era_element.c line 15 can extetn bas
now on to bgo back to .. only wrt guile
obecm enline librr/cittin/elements/bsetypes in sox, and see here 9 or so elemlentn base toyeps widgets
and under impelmetned-emenlments objct see tens or dozens, add for each md item youwant to edit, they hae 5 creator_x elemetn.cs implementations
so you may have crete elemetn with simpleetxt bosx,
or cretor comples elt with name and hsi ddlist name of a role
or elet creator ffixedrole - nd youcan give only fixed role.
and creator notes may be creator and files
so you can choose which creator type
you want to use, so there ar many
also see cox objec tnonstanard leemtns, see name_form_element.cs a fith way to crete, as you start tyoing this form pops up,.. good to show and oedtoit creator ne
in an extant item mostly
so bulk of non-stander elemetns ar mformes that pop up at you
or the serial heirarcy paenal oe haccepts iteger and oea txbtbo. there ar a lot of hee by ddefault
and this is the most tedious part of the etediso
so we have to creat an elt fo reach one of these
so see era_element.s in postacrd core
so line 22 can define not repeatable or also can define in config file
and a couple of required methods at lines 25,31, 53
3 1 lien 431 is render tmeplatehtml it draws the htl fo rthis item, and you will also put out the exiting md aluesfo rthem to edit
thsi daraws the orignal dication dat to the response hwn it comes back fo rht uer to edit
and ssee line 43 we have to get the data gain, and if not null we dispay the vale line 47 and we use line 50 render_helper so the base class writes the htl fo rus
and after they type in some data or not, ast soem pot the user hits submit and it comes back to the tmeplate object. and so i will pas to this
line 25 firs tprepear for save as they hit sav andline 53 save to bib
w two step procsss as if it is a list ia my clearn outthe lsit and with psotcrd info line 28 there is ntohin to do, no preparion fo rsaving her
and line 53 we sav_to_bib
and it looks at allkeys line 57 of curent request form
and looks fo rits on name,a dnlooks to the form to see the boes that it wrong dso gethe alu out lien 73
and see ifthere was length to the value we assing itand ifnot length to it line 94, we assing that, wthithout this else it would be posoible to cleer out if user dleted data and hti save, that is how we get to thsi else
and so that is how to extent preexiting elt liene 15 base extends simpeltetbox_elment
so those ar eh template elmetns, one fo the ore tedious parts
so if making only 1 ne field not bad, but here we had to do 7 or 8 of hese things
and now look at he configuration file.. it siintersting. ckind of like a dmeo of what we want to do ,..
lookund psotcar dcore.xml in the github repo
so line 8 etension is postard core with nane and lines 10-18 we hav e admininfo and rewe link
and lin25 26 is hypothethical stuff so we can hae a schea and hope to alwasy include it..to add css this way.. new css, not ofewrtiting exitng..
lines 32-36 new ideas hwo to add or remove sttigns during instlal ,and in here weill add way to run sql script during instlal
and in uninsatall section, mayebe away to run cshartp code and sql scripts in both instal land uininstall
linds 47-53 hav e configuration.. info to prvodde ome info in config you can read.. a way to show this dml could be easily accessible to yoru plugin. or you could creteyour won config files na readersto invent your own stuff
and lines 58+ configurtion reads keyvalue pairs that can be read and you can change inyourconfig, but we are not usig nthose yet, but preapring
noe line 71 engine  we are not yet usign. but will soon.. a psotard services class..
and line 84 metadata portion.. what do we do
hwer we eregistr rne rmests eaer writer and add it to the provile
so line 84 we add it with id label,namespace and assembly and class iand isacive and section isdmdsec,
so when it reads the.. skip all that..
now that is how we assign th reader writer so the website knows about this
so the mdtype and othermdtype ar present in the pmets file, see each mets file has those..
so here is the dmdsec and each ETS:dmdSec has id and hte mWrap hs MDTYPE,
and could have OTHERMDTYPE attriut here some have it for some usef mets file..
and same with amd sec, hcan have mdtype and othermdtype attribs
so we know those are package level dmd section mets:div dmd="Dm11 DS2"
and so they are tied to highest level  so see hwo that works
so the mapping part of the config file says when you read the mets file
and seems mdtype of therh oand othermdtype of postcardcore, then use this writer,
at line 88 of the postcardcore.xm onfig file
and is default attri eans use this, so do use this hen you hitthat in the mets
and lines 93 we add it to the default provild to read writerin line 96
so by default when saving a mets file it will invoke this reader writer..
so you could have diferent writing provides too

so this says when you are reading use this mapping to launch at line 88 and
line 96 when writing try to use it and next thing line 105 is to register
mapping sets, eg line 106 we hae internal, standard, citation
and we register this in your own mapping sed IDS
and can invent your own mapping set IDs,
and can vary what they do, so do register it
and lines 119 you register syour citation info to let your citation info
know about these fields
so the citation is written by the brief item so metadata Term you want to match
what you cite in your briefitem mapper.
so your metadta trm may use a postcard prefix/

this says we add a new fieldset for id postcard and these are the
fields that will be there.
20160426t1119
go see a citation, and each region of 4 or five on left margin is the
fieldset name goes there
so order=append is an option and you can set what order you want it to appear.
-
so now go to lines 143 templateconfig - registering the template elements
and your type see line 151 subject subtype postcard, and in your template you
would have this, and when discovered, it will create an instance of this class,
how it maps form template xml.. we are making web aware of elts that exist by
creating them here
but still have to go to dloc template and add those fields to add to the template.
-
so all these things appear in our sys admin setting sw systemwide settings as well
under md config, md search fields, they will show up here once you have data here
and your mets reader/writer will show up in that list
and your writing profiles will show up in those lists
and also in ui configuration template elements as well, you would
see your type, subtype and class..
and it sil who up in your default citation sets under admin/settings/ui/citation
ui configuration citation viewer

and now mvs task is to create a helper,
and the helper cannot do it all, but it can..
we should say to it we want to add an object that is a string or a list of strings,
and it would generate most of this for us
but it will not generate your nice complex objects like postmarks sent,
postmarks received objects,
and it can generate quite a bit,
especially for simple custom metadata it would do maybe 70% of the work
and it would be windows form to generate this helper output files..
or maybe one day a web form..

rb: or maybe a vs plugin, but mvs says windows form will generate .cs
file set to put into your vs project
and the biggest thing is to give the field name and the type of field it is..
20160426t1141 - ending...

--end 20170426
